Alfred Pennyworth(disambiguation)
Alfred Pennyworth ( 2011 - Present ) Alfred Pennyworth Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Alfred Pennyworth ( 2011 - Present )
Alfred Pennyworth is the trusted butler of Bruce Wayne and the Wayne Family , making him Batman 's manservant. Having worked for Thomas and Martha Wayne before they were murdered, he raised young Bruce from an early age. His responsibilities include attending to Batman and making sure he can properly function, as well as looking after the Batcave and Wayne Manor . Always the perfect gentleman, Alfred is loyal and faithful, although not afraid to criticize his employer when he deserves it. His experience in the military has given him combat and medical training, and he was also a noted stage actor in his time. He was originally named Alfred Beagle . Alfred is an important member of the Batman Family and has been the leader of the Outsiders .
Alfred was created by Don C. Cameron and Bob Kane , first appearing in Batman #16 ( 1943 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.5 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Alternate Timelines 1.8 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.5 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Alternate Timelines
1.8 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 Tomorrowverse 2.2 DC Extended Universe 2.3 LEGO Dimensions 2.4 Others
2.1 Tomorrowverse
2.2 DC Extended Universe
2.3 LEGO Dimensions
2.4 Others
3 Comics
4 Other Media Titles
5 See Also
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
Tomorrowverse
DC Extended Universe
LEGO Dimensions
Others
Comics
Other Media Titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Alfred Pennyworth
Eagle

Amanda Waller(disambiguation)
Amanda Waller ( 2011 - Present ) Amanda Waller Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Amanda Waller ( 2011 - Present )
Amanda "The Wall" Waller is a hardline top-ranking U.S. Government agent involved in clandestine operations. Despite her non-threatening physical appearance, she is almost universally feared as one of the most ruthless women in espionage and politics. She founded and operates the Suicide Squad , a team of supervillains running missions for the government in exchange for reduced prison sentences; she has also been involved with Agency , Checkmate , the Shadow Fighters , and once led the Secret Six as Mockingbird . In most media in which she appears, she seems to have a distinct rivalry with the Batman . Whenever the two are shown together, they are almost always shown to have a pre-existing relationship of bitterness over their respective methods.
Amanda Waller was created by John Ostrander , Len Wein and John Byrne , first appearing in Legends #1 ( 1986 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 1.2 Post-Crisis 1.3 Pre-Crisis 1.4 Elseworlds 1.5 Alternate timelines 1.6 Possible futures
1.1 The New 52
1.2 Post-Crisis
1.3 Pre-Crisis
1.4 Elseworlds
1.5 Alternate timelines
1.6 Possible futures
2 Other media 2.1 Arrowverse 2.2 Others
2.1 Arrowverse
2.2 Others
3 Comics
4 Other media titles
Multiverse
The New 52
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Alternate timelines
Possible futures
Other media
Arrowverse
Others
Comics
Other media titles

Kaldur'ahm(disambiguation)
Aquaman ( 2016 - Present ) Aquaman Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Aquaman ( 2016 - Present )
Kaldur'ahm , also known as Jackson Hyde , is the second Aqualad . He became Arthur Curry 's partner after his original sidekick Garth grew up to become Tempest . Jackson's powers include control over water and electricity. He is the son of Black Manta and his name is an homage to the older character Cal Durham . Kaldur disappeared from the comics for five years after The New 52 reboot, eventually reappearing in DCU: Rebirth #1 ( 2016 ) as a member of the Teen Titans , and eventually became the new Aquaman .
Kaldur'ahm was created by Greg Weisman , Brandon Vietti , and Phil Bourassa . He was meant to first appear in the 2010 Young Justice pilot episode " Independence Day ", but Geoff Johns 's adaption appeared five months prior in Brightest Day #4 ( 2010 ).
Multiverse
Other Media
See Also
Aqualad
Aquaman

Aquaman (Arthur Curry)
Aquaman Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Arthur Curry Main Alias Aquaman Other Aliases King Arthur , Orin , [ 1 ] Arausio, Andy, Green Arrow , [ 2 ] Dark Tide Relatives Atlan (relative, deceased), [ 3 ] Orin (ancestor, deceased), [ 3 ] Calculha (ancestor), Majistra (ancestor), Arion (ancestor), Uvian (ancestor, deceased), Tom Curry (father, deceased), Atlanna (mother, deceased), Orm Marius (maternal half-brother), Tula (step-sister), Mera (wife), Andrina Curry (daughter) Garth (adopted son) [ 4 ] Arthur Curry, Jr (son, deceased) [ 5 ] Affiliation Aquaman Family , Justice League Unlimited , The Others , Atlantean Royal Family , Justice League Blue · Formerly Justice League Detroit Base Of Operations Amnesty Bay · Formerly Atlantis Status Alignment Good Identity Public Identity Race Demigod / Atlantean hybrid [ 6 ] Citizenship American · Atlantean Marital Status Married Occupation King former Lighthouse Keeper Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 1" Weight 325 lbs (147 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Blond Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Mort Weisinger · Paul Norris First Appearance Justice League Vol 2  #1 ( October, 2011 )
Aquaman
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Orin (ancestor, deceased), [ 3 ] Calculha (ancestor), Majistra (ancestor), Arion (ancestor), Uvian (ancestor, deceased), Tom Curry (father, deceased), Atlanna (mother, deceased), Orm Marius (maternal half-brother), Tula (step-sister), Mera (wife), Andrina Curry (daughter) Garth (adopted son) [ 4 ] Arthur Curry, Jr (son, deceased) [ 5 ]
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Race
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Arthur Curry is Aquaman , an adventurer who is half-human and half- Atlantean . This gives him a variety of powers including superhuman strength, telepathic control over marine life, and the ability to survive both in water and on land. He belongs to the royal family of Atlantis , and normally acts as their king. His romantic partner is the princess Mera of Xebel . He is a founding member of two superhero teams, the world-famous Justice League and the clandestine Others .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.1.1 Justice League 1.1.2 Later Adventures 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 The Trench 1.2.2 The Others 1.2.3 Atonement 1.2.4 The Cheetah's Curse 1.2.5 Throne of Atlantis 1.2.6 The First King 1.2.7 Adventures with the Others 1.2.7.1 Legend's Revenge 1.2.7.2 Combating Mayhem 1.2.8 Crime Syndicate's Invasion 1.2.8.1 Pandora's Box 1.2.8.2 Trapped in Firestorm 1.2.9 Power Ring 1.2.10 Quest against the Giant born 1.2.11 The Unstoppable Algae 1.2.12 Chimera 1.2.13 The Maelstrom 1.2.14 On The Run & The Other Atlantis 1.2.15 Dead Water 1.2.16 Rao's Invasion 1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Relations Collapse 1.3.2 N.E.M.O. 1.3.3 Warhead 1.3.4 H2.O 1.3.5 Overthrown 1.3.6 In Hiding 1.3.7 A New Monarch 1.3.8 The Chinese Justice League 1.3.9 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.3.9.1 The Beginning 1.3.9.2 Resisting Barbatos 1.3.10 Atlantis Uprising 1.3.11 Sink Atlantis 1.3.12 Drowned Earth 1.3.13 Alliance with Anti-Monitor 1.3.14 Call of the Gods 1.3.15 Mother Shark 1.3.16 The Birth of Princess Andy 1.3.17 The Wedding of Arthur and Mera 1.3.18 Endless Winter 1.3.19 Death Metal 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Warworld Rising 1.4.2 Deep Target 1.4.3 Aquamen 1.4.4 Dark Crisis 1.4.5 Lazarus Planet 1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors 1.5.2 Absolute Power 1.6 All In
1.1 Early Life 1.1.1 Justice League 1.1.2 Later Adventures
1.1.1 Justice League
1.1.2 Later Adventures
1.2 New 52 1.2.1 The Trench 1.2.2 The Others 1.2.3 Atonement 1.2.4 The Cheetah's Curse 1.2.5 Throne of Atlantis 1.2.6 The First King 1.2.7 Adventures with the Others 1.2.7.1 Legend's Revenge 1.2.7.2 Combating Mayhem 1.2.8 Crime Syndicate's Invasion 1.2.8.1 Pandora's Box 1.2.8.2 Trapped in Firestorm 1.2.9 Power Ring 1.2.10 Quest against the Giant born 1.2.11 The Unstoppable Algae 1.2.12 Chimera 1.2.13 The Maelstrom 1.2.14 On The Run & The Other Atlantis 1.2.15 Dead Water 1.2.16 Rao's Invasion
1.2.1 The Trench
1.2.2 The Others
1.2.3 Atonement
1.2.4 The Cheetah's Curse
1.2.5 Throne of Atlantis
1.2.6 The First King
1.2.7 Adventures with the Others 1.2.7.1 Legend's Revenge 1.2.7.2 Combating Mayhem
1.2.7.1 Legend's Revenge
1.2.7.2 Combating Mayhem
1.2.8 Crime Syndicate's Invasion 1.2.8.1 Pandora's Box 1.2.8.2 Trapped in Firestorm
1.2.8.1 Pandora's Box
1.2.8.2 Trapped in Firestorm
1.2.9 Power Ring
1.2.10 Quest against the Giant born
1.2.11 The Unstoppable Algae
1.2.12 Chimera
1.2.13 The Maelstrom
1.2.14 On The Run & The Other Atlantis
1.2.15 Dead Water
1.2.16 Rao's Invasion
1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Relations Collapse 1.3.2 N.E.M.O. 1.3.3 Warhead 1.3.4 H2.O 1.3.5 Overthrown 1.3.6 In Hiding 1.3.7 A New Monarch 1.3.8 The Chinese Justice League 1.3.9 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.3.9.1 The Beginning 1.3.9.2 Resisting Barbatos 1.3.10 Atlantis Uprising 1.3.11 Sink Atlantis 1.3.12 Drowned Earth 1.3.13 Alliance with Anti-Monitor 1.3.14 Call of the Gods 1.3.15 Mother Shark 1.3.16 The Birth of Princess Andy 1.3.17 The Wedding of Arthur and Mera 1.3.18 Endless Winter 1.3.19 Death Metal
1.3.1 Relations Collapse
1.3.2 N.E.M.O.
1.3.3 Warhead
1.3.4 H2.O
1.3.5 Overthrown
1.3.6 In Hiding
1.3.7 A New Monarch
1.3.8 The Chinese Justice League
1.3.9 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.3.9.1 The Beginning 1.3.9.2 Resisting Barbatos
1.3.9.1 The Beginning
1.3.9.2 Resisting Barbatos
1.3.10 Atlantis Uprising
1.3.11 Sink Atlantis
1.3.12 Drowned Earth
1.3.13 Alliance with Anti-Monitor
1.3.14 Call of the Gods
1.3.15 Mother Shark
1.3.16 The Birth of Princess Andy
1.3.17 The Wedding of Arthur and Mera
1.3.18 Endless Winter
1.3.19 Death Metal
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Warworld Rising 1.4.2 Deep Target 1.4.3 Aquamen 1.4.4 Dark Crisis 1.4.5 Lazarus Planet
1.4.1 Warworld Rising
1.4.2 Deep Target
1.4.3 Aquamen
1.4.4 Dark Crisis
1.4.5 Lazarus Planet
1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors 1.5.2 Absolute Power
1.5.1 Knight Terrors
1.5.2 Absolute Power
1.6 All In
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Recommended Reading
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Early Life
Arthur Curry was born the son of the Atlantean queen Atlanna and the Amnesty Bay lighthouse keeper Tom Curry . Atlanna returned to Atlantis , so Tom was forced to raise Arthur alone. As a child Arthur began to show that he had inherited his mother's gifts. Tom turned to Doctor Stephen Shin , a scientist he saved from a storm, so he could better understand Arthur's abilities.
During the time of Arthur's graduation, Shin attempted to release his research to the public, so Tom destroyed all of it except a phial of Arthur's blood, which he took. Shin paid a treasure hunter known as the Black Manta to retrieve the phial from the Curry household. However, there was a struggle and the stress caused Tom to suffer a heart attack, and he died in the hospital soon after. Arthur then tracked Black Manta down and killed his father, believing it to be Manta himself. [ 7 ] He then fled civilization until he was brought to Atlantis by his mother's royal adviser Vulko . [ 8 ]
Arthur went on to form the Others , a team made up of outcasts who would search the globe for the Dead King's Atlantean Weapons so they could be safe guarded. After retrieving the artifacts and keeping the Trident of Neptune , Aquaman parted ways with the Others. [ 9 ] At some point between leaving the Others and joining the Justice League, Arthur met and fell in love with Mera , a Xebelian princess sent to kill him. [ 10 ]
Justice League
The Justice League
Arthur was among the founding members of the Justice League . While the team's actual first meeting is debated, Arthur helped defeat Darkseid's invasion and participated in the subsequent battle with the alien Appellaxians , which resulted in them nearly being turned into trees before emerging victorious. The heroes, inspired by their victory, formed a team, christening it the Justice League, establishing a headquarters in the form of the Secret Sanctuary in Happy Harbor . One of their earliest foes was Starro the Conqueror . [ 11 ] [ 4 ]
Later Adventures
Arthur would come across a boy named Garth that was unjustly exiled from Atlantis due superstitious ocean dwellers believing his purple eyes were a genetic throwback. Appalled by how they treated the boy, Arthur adopted Garth and made him his protege, the first Aqualad , who would go on to join the Teen Titans . [ 4 ]
At some point, Arthur fathered a son, Arthur Curry Jr. . [ 12 ] Around that time Arthur initially gave the right to rule Atlantis over to his half-brother, Orm , but he was forced to battle him and take his rightful place as king back after Orm launched an attack on the surface world. [ 4 ] At some point during his first reign an Atlantean general named Mako took Arthur to a hidden vault full of "contingencies" for a war against the surface. Mako revealed that he had Atlantean sleeper agents hidden on the surface ready to launch retaliation attacks if the surface ever harmed Atlantis. Arthur ordered the project shut down but many of the sleepers remained. [ 13 ]
Arthur and Garth would have many adventures until the world's collective memories of the Teen Titans were purged by Lilith Clay in order to prevent the rise of the demonic Mister Twister . This included Aquaman, who forgot about raising Garth and taking him on as Aqualad. As such Garth became oblivious to his history and joined the Atlantean Army, unaware of his past with Arthur and the Teen Titans. [ 14 ]
Arthur loses his son
Shortly after he was dethroned by the Atlanteans, Arthur's infant son, known affectionately as Aquababy, was viciously murdered by Black Manta. [ 4 ]
At a point when he and Mera were separated, Aquaman was a member of Justice League Detroit and considered pursuing a relationship with his teammate Vixen . [ 15 ] For a time, Aquaman had a harpoon in the place of his hand, and joined a Justice League that was defeated due to Batman's lack of trust in his fellow members. [ 16 ]
New 52
The Trench
Aquaman and Mera vs. the Trench
As Aquaman, Arthur Curry began protecting Boston , having decided to completely abandon Atlantis to pursue a life on land with Mera. [ 17 ] Boston was attacked by a carnivorous underwater species called the Trench , and Aquaman and Mera fended off the invasion. [ 18 ]
Chasing the Trench, which had taken hostages, to the Marianas Trench , they discovered the predators dying out and desperately trying to feed their children in the remnants of an Atlantean craft. The heroes saved the captives, and Aquaman reluctantly caused the Trench's extinction to prevent further loss of human life. During the U.S. Navy's investigation of the hideout after the fact, Aquaman came in contact with the ship's black box , discovering a centuries-old warning inside. [ 19 ]
The Others
Aquaman and the Others
Reuniting with an old ally of Aquaman's named Ya'Wara from his days with the Others, Aquaman and Mera were informed that Black Manta had killed Kahina the Seer , another former member of the Others, and had taken one of the Artifacts of Atlantis—the Seal of Clarity which she was guarding. [ 20 ] In order to ensure their safety, Aquaman and Ya'Wara began to work together to contact the Others in case Black Manta had gotten to them. First they traveled to the United States Health Center in Heidelberg , Germany in search of Prisoner-of-War before Manta ambushed them, stole Ya'Wara's necklace , and escaped. [ 21 ]
Once the Others were finally assembled, one of their members called the Operative informed them that Black Manta planned to steal the Dead King's Scepter . Although the Others tracked down the villain's location and Aquaman managed to defeat Manta, the heroes did not succeed in time to stop Manta from delivering the scepter to a mysterious stranger and Vostok-X was killed. [ 22 ]
Atonement
The League at the mercy of Graves
Arthur and the League took down the villain Spore , an A.R.G.U.S. employee who had been exposed to a virus when an unknown individual stole the Orb of Ra . [ 23 ] Over their next few missions the League was followed around by Aquaman's frenemy Green Arrow , who insisted he should join the team, however the League wasn't opening ranks due to their last new addition Martian Manhunter . [ 24 ] The Justice League realized soon after this that someone was attacking the League's enemies such as the Key and the Scavenger , to find out the Justice League's weaknesses in both body and mind. After interrogating several of the villains they all gave a single name- Graves . [ 25 ]
Shortly after this, Aquaman was saving the inhabitants of a sunken cruise ship when he was called to the Watchtower by Cyborg. The Justice League discussed the threat that this "Graves" faced when Graves entered the Watchtower with Steve Trevor's codes and attacked the League. The entire League was defeated by the spirits Graves controlled. [ 26 ] Graves then vanished from the scene. They then went to Tracy Trevor's and she explained that Graves was the author David Graves who had previously praised the League after they saved his family during Darkseid's invasion. However, Graves's family had gotten sick and died, and he went missing after he gained the sickness. Graves believed that the League caused the illness. After a brief skirmish between Lantern and Wonder Woman over the League's priorities, they all headed to the Valley of Souls where Graves had been imbued with his power. They were then set upon by illusions of their biggest losses. [ 27 ] The League were soon snapped out of the illusion as Trevor arrived. They then fought off Graves and his Asuran masters, and Aquaman was able to break Graves' connection to the Asuras, ending his terror. [ 28 ]
The Cheetah's Curse
After the defeat of David Graves, Batman and Aquaman were having arguments about which one of them should lead the Justice League, as the team needed greater stability after Green Lantern left. These arguments were postponed due to the emergence of Wonder Woman's enemy Cheetah who had defeated her enemy and disappeared. The League tracked Cheetah to a jungle where she ambushed them and bit Superman. Superman then fell under her control and attacked the League. [ 29 ] Cheetah fled the scene as the tribe of the Cheetah fled. After helping to secure Superman and return him to normal, the leader of the tribe explained the origin of the Cheetah. The League then chased Cheetah around the forest until Aquaman apprehended her. [ 30 ]
Throne of Atlantis
Aquaman vs. Orm for the fate of the surface world
After a series of aggressive moves made by the U.S. government on the area surrounding Atlantis, the underwater state declared war on the surface world. Though Aquaman wanted to stop the conflict peacefully with the help of the Justice League, he soon learned that his own half-brother Orm was leading the invasion.
Conflicted between his loyalties to the Justice League and Atlantis, Aquaman learned by investigating into the matter that Orm had not caused the mysterious attacks by the United States in order to start the war, instead, the culprit was Vulko, who was exiled from Atlantis after Curry's departure and wanted revenge. [ 31 ]
Battling Orm's oncoming fleet in Boston, Aquaman tried to explain to his brother the conspiracy brought on by Vulko, though Orm refused to stand down. Usurping Orm and declaring himself king once more, Aquaman ended the war on the surface and declared the arrests of both Vulko and Orm. [ 32 ]
The First King
Taking back Atlantis
Once king again, Aquaman soon received news that Mera had disappeared inside the Bermuda Triangle. He traveled to the Triangle and reached the kingdom of Xebel, Mera's homeland, where he came face to face with the Dead King , who had imprisoned the entire city in ice. [ 33 ] After freeing Mera and fighting the Dead King, [ 34 ] Aquaman and Mera retreated to Atlantis to find the city under attack by the villainous Scavenger's fleet. Aquaman summoned Topo , a massive underwater monster, with his telepathy to destroy the Scavenger's forces, but the strain of controlling the beast caused him to go into a coma just as the Dead King arrived to reclaim Atlantis.
Aquaman awakened six months later under Vulko's care in Antarctica. [ 35 ] Returning to Atlantis, Arthur commanded the Trench to liberate his home from its tyrant. After a lengthy brawl, Arthur killed the Dead King, being acknowledged as the king of Atlantis once again. [ 36 ]
Adventures with the Others
Aquaman was reunited with the Others when Vostok-X's helmet was stolen from the Living Room by a twisted version of animals. The Others tracked the helmet to the location of the thief, where it was revealed that the helmet was stolen by Morgaine le Fey , an immortal sorceress, member of the Immortal Men and sister of Madame Xanadu .
Morgaine wanted the helmet due to its magical properties; the helmet rid the user of the need of sustenance which would allow her to finally leave the Earth . When Arthur and the others arrived Morgaine cast illusions on each of the Others, giving them the chance to join her or die. Arthur, Operative, Prisoner-Of-War and Sky Alchesay all denied but Ya'Wara opted to join her as she believed Morgaine could help her save the Amazon Rainforest . Morgaine was defeated by the Others and Ya'Wara was brought to her senses shortly after. [ 37 ]
Aquaman vs. Legend
Sometime after defeating Morgaine, the Others came under attack from a covert military force trying to retrieve the Artifacts; all of these attempts were futile as Aquaman and the Others were able to fight them off each time. The operatives then kidnapped Kahina the Seer's sister Sayeh wanting access to her Precognition. [ 38 ] Arthur and the others were then ambushed by Anton Solokov and his sister Darya who were behind the attacks. They then transported the Others to their castle in Trezygstan where they met the true enemy, Legend . [ 39 ]
Legend revealed that he was from the time of the Dead King and that he had stolen his father's enchanted gold and then murdered him. Atlan then used the Gold to forge the Atlantean Weapons, and Legend had been trying to get the gold back since then. Ya'Wara was teleported to the moon in the conflict and discovered a clone of Vostok which after returning to Earth helped Aquaman and the Others defeat Legend and the Solokov twins, killing Legend in the process. [ 40 ] Sayeh and Vostok 2 joined the Others after the battle. [ 41 ]
Prisoner-Of-War possessed by Gary Korec
After the fight with Legend, Operative was ambushed during a deal by the KGBeast who threw him off a building. Operative was saved by Vostok and continued to fight with the KGBeast until he was overwhelmed by both opponents. Cheshire then helped the Beast escape as Aquaman appeared on the scene. Cheshire and KGBeast then met up with the rest of their team, a group of villains known as Mayhem whose members included Maelstrom , Strangehold , Braze , Cheshire, KGBeast and NKVDemon . [ 42 ]
With the drive retrieved from the conflict with Operative—which contained nuclear launch codes—Mayhem planned to threaten the World and usurp whatever they wanted from it. To make matters worse for Arthur the Prisoner-Of-War became possessed by one of the soldiers he absorbed. However, Aquaman and the Others were able to contain the soldier and free the Prisoner-Of-War. Operative corrupted the launch codes before Mayhem could fire any Nuclear Missiles. The Others and Mayhem then fought on an abandoned Prison Island ending the threat. [ 43 ]
Crime Syndicate's Invasion
Months after Orm's invasion of the surface the Justice League began considering opening their ranks to new membership. After a semi-audition of the heroes who had assisted the League during the invasion the League picked three new members: Fire storm , Element Woman and The Atom (Rhonda Pineda) .
Superman crippled by Kryptonite
Around this time the League watchtower was hacked with a message- have a nice day. [ 44 ] On the day of the new members' introduction the Batcave was attacked by a mysterious figure who had defeated Red Hood and Alfred and taken a Kryptonite Ring . Upon investigation, Batman and Aquaman weren't able to find a possible culprit. Meanwhile, the new members were fighting off the villain Despero who had entered the Watchtower, causing it to crash down to Earth. However, the heroes were able to defeat the alien when they discovered that it bore the kryptonite ring. [ 45 ]
After the League arrived on the scene Batman and Cyborg noticed that a microscopic slither of kryptonite was missing from the ring. While Superman and Wonder Woman were imprisoning Despero they were met upon by the woman who let evil upon the World Pandora who gave Superman her box as she hoped that his pure heart would activate the box sealing all evil up once again, however this failed so she vanished. [ 46 ] Shortly after this the League received a message that a superhero had entered Kahndaq which was against the law. The Justice League entered Kahndaq and attempted to apprehend Shazam with the help of Zatanna before the situation escalated. Soon after this the government supported Justice League of America arrived on the scene, the arrival of this team quickly lead to conflict after Superman killed Doctor Light with his Heat Vision . Superman quickly ended the fight and ordered the Justice League of America to arrest him. [ 46 ]
While Superman was in custody Wonder Woman met with the Justice League Dark , as she believed they could help her find Pandora's Box which she thought had corrupted Superman. [ 47 ] Believing nothing good would come of Wonder Woman finding the box, Amanda Waller sent the JL and JLA to apprehend Wonder Woman. Upon locating Wonder Woman she was able to convince several members of the JL teams to help in her search, including Aquaman. [ 48 ] . Eventually, the team tracked Pandora down to Lex Luthor's cell where the box began corrupting the League members one by one. [ 49 ] John Constantine was able to get the box and teleported away before any more harm could be done. Upon tracking down the box to where the team was thrown into turmoil once more. At that moment the mysterious leader of the Secret Society of Super-Villains known as the Outsider took the box. Atom then revealed that it was her that planted Kryptonite in Superman's brain- causing him to kill Doctor Light, as she was a mole for the Outsider called Atomica. Cyborg was then expelled from his body by one of his programs calling itself Grid who was working for the pair and had hacked the Watchtower. [ 50 ] Outsider then activated the box revealing it to be a portal to another world and a figure who looked like Aquaman came out and instantly died. Then more evil versions of the Justice League came out of the portal with Outsider and Atomica joining them, they attacked the heroes claiming the World as the property of the Crime Syndicate . [ 50 ]
As the Justice Leagues began fighting the Syndicate Deathstorm , the evil counterpart of Firestorm, blasted Firestorm causing him to have a nuclear reaction. This reaction dragged almost every hero present into the Firestorm Matrix including Arthur. The Syndicate then put Firestorm in the hands of Despero who created illusions for each hero so they wouldn't have a chance of escaping the Matrix and stopping the Syndicate. [ 51 ] Aquaman was thrown in an illusion where all sea life had been killed by humans that put him in an endless cycle of sorrow and rage. [ 52 ] Months later Batman was able to take down the Crime Syndicate with the help of a group of villains including Black Manta called the Injustice League and free the League. As a result of the conflict Black Manta, Ocean Master and many other villains escaped imprisonment and all the Crime Syndicate members had died apart from Grid, Ultraman , Owlman and Superwoman . Lex Luthor and Captain Cold were also taken into consideration for Justice League membership due to their heroic actions in the invasion. [ 53 ]
Power Ring
Shortly after the invasion, the League began hunting various members of the Secret Society while trying to find evidence that Luthor hadn't reformed. [ 54 ] Agreeing that they needed to know what had happened to the Crime Syndicate's Earth they began hunting down the ring used by the deceased Syndicate member Power Ring as it held information on the upcoming threat. Eventually the team were able to locate the Ring in Oregon where it had found a new host in the form of Jessica Cruz When they arrived on site Cruz was wreaking havoc due to the ring controlling her and there was another team on the site: the Doom Patrol . [ 55 ] Upon approaching the team their leader the Chief said he would bring the girl in to keep her from hurting anyone. The teams clashed with Aquaman fighting Robotman , the fighting stopped when Batman was able to calm Cruz down- freeing her from the ring's influence temporarily. [ 56 ] They then took Cruz back to base where Arthur and Barry watched over her. At the same time Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman decided to allow Luthor in the League to keep an eye on him. [ 57 ]
Quest against the Giant born
After saving some Atlantean workers from lava vents an alert was triggered that a giant creature was attacking the coast. This creature turned out to be the Karaqan a legendary Atlantean guardian, despite this Aquaman killed the beast to halt its rampage. Aquaman tracked a piece of the Karaqan's brain to an underwater facility called Triton Base (that had siphoned a piece of the brain from the Karaqan's corpse) where he proceeded to save a diver named Coombs from some sharks although he was critically injured in the attack.
Aquaman and Wonder Woman against the Giant-Born
On a trip to the surface world the Trident of Neptune was stolen by a researcher named Daniel Evans so he could learn more about ancient Atlantis, Aquaman was not able to stop him from accidentally unleashing the dreaded Giant-Born upon the world from an artifact. The beasts, who recognized Aquaman's Atlantean royal symbol, attacked him for associating with the ancient family who once imprisoned them.
Though he managed to fend off the Giant-Born, also unleashed from that artifact was the ancient hero Hercules , whose mind had been warped after having such an extended stay in the hellish landscape he was trapped in. He, too, was defeated by Aquaman, who sent him back into the artifact and swore that he would one day find a way to help the man reclaim his sanity. [ 58 ]
Tracking the escaped Giant-Born to Carcassonne in France, Aquaman enlisted the help of Wonder Woman who with the help of Daniel Evans put a stop to the evil abominations. [ 59 ]
The Unstoppable Algae
An unstoppable Algae monster had begun terrorizing the ocean, killing everything in its way. Looking for a solution to the problem Aquaman and Ya'Wara went searching for the Swamp Thing in hopes of answers. However, when confronting the Avatar of the Green no answers were given and he simply fled. [ 60 ]
When Aquaman returned to combat the monster Swamp Thing was trying to commune with it, he then had Swamp Thing eaten by Sea-cows before turning to the Algae monster. Aquaman called on his Atlantean forces to destroy the creature but then it fell apart. It turned out Swamp Thing had learned that it was a part of the uber-consciousness of all plant life that split off and formed a baby reality called Kreuzblütler, which Swamp Thing was able to destroy internally. [ 61 ]
Chimera
In Triton Base, one of the scientist's attempts to create a hybrid creature out of the Karaqan's brain and Coombs' remains was successful, however, the creature escaped the base and began its search for the King of Atlantis. [ 62 ]
The creature, now calling itself "Chimera," reached out to Arthur through marine telepathy and overpowered Aquaman's connection to sea life, making them attack him. [ 62 ] The connection broke and Aquaman looked for answers about his experience which led him to a hospital boat where Stephen Shin was staying ever since Chimera escaped captivity. [ 63 ] Chimera attacked Arthur on the boat and overpowered him, but the creature was defeated by an ignited fuel tank which blew it up. [ 64 ]
The Maelstrom
Atlantis was suffering a chain of seaquakes so Aquaman employed the surface researchers Stephen Shin and Daniel Evans to assist in the investigation. It was soon discovered that the reason for the quakes was because the city did not see Aquaman as its true ruler; this meant that Atlantis never recognized that Atlanna had died. Aquaman discovered her body was not in her tomb. [ 65 ] He then proceeded to open an investigation with the help of the Martian Manhunter. This led him to the the Maelstrom Gate where he opened a portal in search of answers.
Aquaman and Mera are defeated by Atlanna
The portal opened in Gorilla City where he was greeted by Lord Solovar ruler of the city. He asked if anyone had come through the portal years ago and Solovar told that Grodd had the answers, after quickly dispatching Grodd he was told that a woman came through some 15 years ago. [ 66 ] He then reentered the portal.
The portal led to the Polynesian seas where Aquaman and Mera were directed to a portal guarded by Fire Trolls . They defeated the Trolls and entered the portal traveling to a hidden island named Pacifica . [ 67 ] They were then attacked by Atlanna and her Atlantean tribe who did not believe who Arthur was. After Aquaman was knocked unconscious by Atlanna, she attempted to sacrifice him to Karaku the Volcano God and ruler of the Island. However he escaped and Karaku attacked the tribe out of anger, sending legions of fire trolls on them. The God was then defeated by Mera and Atlanna realized Aquaman is her son. After abruptly departing from Pacifica Aquaman received a message in the form of a Shell of Sounds from his mother. [ 68 ]
On The Run & The Other Atlantis
Aquaman being hunted
Arthur heard rumors of alien structures and poisoned water in the kingdom so lead an investigation team to one of the sites. The water it emitted stung to the touch so the team destroyed the structure. As they realized more structures were appearing Arthur speculated that it was an invasion force from another dimension. [ 69 ] While investigating, Arthur determined that the particular structure harbored refugee Atlanteans who had escaped the torment of the other dimension and were led by a warlock named Extriax . [ 70 ]
Upon returning to Atlantis, Aquaman was attacked by Mera who believed not destroying the structures due to the possible refugees inside would cause the downfall of the World. Cast out from Atlantis, Aquaman visited Poseidon hoping to receive the strength to stop the invading dimension and take back Atlantis. As a response Poseidon gave him the powers of lightning , earth , water , ice and flight as well as a trident . [ 71 ]
Aquaman, Garth and Mera invading Atlantis
Continuing to destroy as many structures as he could on land and in the sea, while fighting off any forces coming through the portals, Aquaman continued to run from Atlantis and saved as many refugees as possible. He learned that the alternate dimension was known as Thule , and that during King Atlan's rule an organization of sorcerers known as the Coven of Thule orchestrated wars so they could rule in the shadows, however the King put a stop to this so they created a pocket dimension where they could rule indefinitely. The Coven then built up an invasion force, conquering worlds on their plain so they would be ready when the spell was lifted. [ 71 ]
After escaping an Atlantean task force led by Garth Arthur visited Mera to try to convince her of his cause. However Mera revealed that she was not actually Mera, but her sister Hila who was working as ruler of Atlantis for the Coven of Thule. After escaping from Atlantis, the Justice League sought out Arthur as they wanted to know what was causing the worldwide calamity. After filling the League in, Arthur instructed them to destroy any invading forces in countries across the world. While the League was spearheading the defense, Arthur was to invade Atlantis. [ 72 ]
Aquaman attacked Atlantis using sea monsters to help him topple the large quantities of enemies. After saving Mera from captivity the pair defeated Hila and headed to the Coven's lair. With the help of Garth, Murk , Swatt , his step-sister Tula and Mera, Aquaman was able to destroy the Coven and all portals across the World, sacrificing his blessings in the process. After the war was over Arthur inducted the refugees into Atlantis. [ 73 ]
Dead Water
Aquaman being crushed by Scavenger's new suit
Sometime after the Thule invasion, Aquaman began to develop relations with the surface world by creating Spindrift Station , an Atlantean embassy on American soil. He appointed Mera as head of relations between Atlantis and the surface world under the guise of Aquawoman. Meanwhile, he assisted the F.B.I. in the investigation of multiple murders related to an unknown sea creature which the press was calling Dead Water . [ 74 ]
During this investigation, he was attacked by the creature who could teleport through water bodies. He was able to defeat the creature and it was revealed that he was a normal man who had worked for Scavenger named Jonah Payne and was lashing out against people who had wronged him as Dead Water. Aquaman, now knowing this, confronted Scavenger and defeated him. He was then informed that Jonah Payne had disappeared months earlier during a salvage op in a strange water body. Aquaman and Scavenger were then attacked by Dead Water and Payne was killed in the fight. [ 75 ]
Rao's Invasion
Arthur and Diana battling Rao's Prophets
While making delegations with representatives regarding a Mutual Defense Pact between his home nation of Atlantis and the rest of the world, he made a statement of how it was little more than an excuse for people of power to study Atlantean craft while their respective nations kept WMD's pointed at his waters. [ 76 ]
As he reassured them Atlantis held no malice to the surface so long as the rest of the world left them in peace, Arthur received word of a foreigner in his kingdom searching for a way into Olympus . Reaching his kingdom, the emissary proclaimed the time of false gods was over and that he was there to free Atlantis and it's people from their yoke. debating about the presence of gods whom Arthur didn't believe in. He left the prophet among his people, having faith that they would be no more interested in serving Rao than they were in the worship of the long abandoned Poseidon. [ 77 ]
He quickly came to regret that decision however when he and his beloved saw a prophet convert a resisting citizen into one of their flock. After Mera worriedly asked about his leaving one of the prophets in Atlantis, Arthur immediately demanded him to leave. [ 78 ] Only to find the situation had escalated and his people quickly turned on him when he reacted violently to the Prophets acclaiming Roa's sovereignty over his home. After the Prophets failed attempt at destroying what was left of Olympus, Arthur woke up alongside Wonder Woman on the newly restored home of the gods.
The latter stating since the mindset of Olympus's ruler shapes the environment, it reflected whatever she; as the Goddess of War and sole god remaining there, wished it to be. [ 79 ] In the wake of current events, the two headed to the armory in order to prep for war against Rao and his followers. Heading into Ares' old munitions bunker, Diana took several weapons of the gods from the arsenal, even handed Aquaman the relic of Atlantis's former sea god.
As Superman battles Rao in the arctic circle, Diana managed to teleport herself and Arthur into the fray, and delivered critical blows to the would-be god with their divine instruments, but soon relented when Kal-El revealed that any damage the mad deity suffered killed all of those who were under his thrall, as it was their life-force which fed and sustained him. [ 80 ] Through Batman's planning, use of Parasite teamed with the rest of the League, they were able to sever their adversaries link to the enslaved populace of the earth. But at the cost of Clark's life. Aquaman did his best to console his teammate, when Wonder Woman struck his body with the Bolt of Zues; Arthur and the others were surprised and gladdened to find Clark was among the living again. [ 81 ] Just as Rao reconvened with old world Krypton, bringing it back with him to present day in Earth's Orbit with an army of Kryptonians at his beck and call.
As the league struggled to deal with the steadily empowering Kryptonian army set against them, Arthur rebutted the invading Dwalu who dismissed him as a fish-man whose god long since abandoned him. Right around when he used the Trident of the old Sea Monarch to summon a tidal wave to sweep them all aside. [ 82 ] With help from the Infinity Corporation execs, the yellow sun of the earth was turned into a Red giant through the Stones of Life . Depowering all the Kryptonian forces, while Rao was undone by his younger self as the Justice League assembled where the tyrant met his demise.
Rebirth
Relations Collapse
Garth was reunited with his former friends on the Teen Titans and together they were able to defeat Mister Twister and get their memories back after years. This meant Arthur remembered adopting Garth and having him as Aqualad. With his new found friends Garth went on to form a group known as the Titans . [ 14 ] During Wally West 's attempt to escape the Speed Force Arthur brought Mera to Paradise Island near where they first met. Here he proposed to her and she said yes. [ 83 ]
Arthur heard news of a threat to the surface world: a group of Atlantean extremists known as the Deluge led by Corum Rath , who wanted nothing to do with the surface world. The group was heading up stream to Boston with enough fusion charges to level the whole city. Fortunately, Aquaman was able to stop this from happening as he defeated the terrorists before they could cause another war between Atlantis and the Surface World. [ 84 ]
Aquaman and Mera facing off against Superman
During a diplomatic meeting in Spindrift Station a bomb went off and Aquaman was attacked by Black Manta, who was attempting to ruin Atlantis' negotiations with the surface world. Aquaman and Manta fought to a stand still until Aquaman allowed Manta to kill him, believing that Manta wouldn't as it would render his life meaningless. [ 85 ] Black Manta chose to surrender and Arthur met up with Mera to check on her well-being. When he returned to the embassy it was on lockdown by the U.S. army due to the terrorist attack. [ 86 ]
Aquaman and Mera travelled to the White House and met with the Chief of Staff to get Spindrift up and running again. However, Arthur was arrested after a U.S. warship named Pontchartrain was sunken by a group of "Atlanteans" claiming to be the Deluge. In order to stop a war from taking place Aquaman agreed to go along with the United States' wishes. [ 86 ] However tensions grew worse as the Drift had been caught investigating the wreckage of the Pontchartrain, causing U.S. forces to attack them. This prompted Mera to break Arthur out of jail [ 87 ] and the two fought through battalions of U.S. soldiers in an attempt to reach the open ocean. However, this was stopped when Superman arrived and tried to convince Arthur to stand down. [ 88 ] Not convinced by Superman's plea, Arthur began to attack him until the Atlantean forces arrived to protect him. After receiving an order from Superman to fix the conflict Aquaman retreated to Atlantis and began to look for a way to halt the forthcoming war. [ 89 ]
N.E.M.O.
Aquaman trying to keep the Shaggy Man back
Upon return to Atlantis, Murk displayed one of the helmets used by the Deluge during the attack on the Pontchartrain, it was at this moment that Arthur realized someone was trying to start a war between Atlantis and the surface world and that they were surface dwellers as the Atlantean helm had breathing apparatus on it. [ 90 ] After making this discovery Arthur interrogated Corum Rath about the helmet but learnt he knew nothing, so he had F.B.I. agents Reagan Irving and Arni Ajar investigate the gear on the surface world.
Aquaman learnt of a giant monster heading towards Atlantis that was believed to have been released by the organization behind the conflict. When Arthur went to investigate the creature it attacked him and laid waste to him and all of his forces. Arthur realized that the monster was a creature known as the Shaggy Man , an unstoppable being that had gone toe to toe with the whole Justice League at once. [ 91 ] After carving a path through Atlantis the monster headed to the surface world where it began laying waste to Amnesty Bay. Arthur faced the creature alone for the fate of the world and managed to defeat it by teleporting it into space using his Justice League teleportation card, seriously injuring himself in the process. [ 92 ]
When Mera visited him in hospital she told him that she had spoken to Lieutenant Joanna Stubbs of the British Navy who had told her that a shadow organization known as the National Enforcement Macrocosmic Order (N.E.M.O.) was behind the conflict. After receiving this information Arthur informed the Justice League who helped ease the tension by heralding Aquaman as a hero. As relations began to take a more positive turn, news of an Atlantean invasion hit the world. [ 93 ]
The Aquamarines attempt to kill King Arthur
N.E.M.O. had invaded several cities along the coast using Atlantean weaponry and tactics, making it seem like Atlantis was attacking the surface world. As a result of this America declared war on Atlantis destroying any Atlantean vessels they found. [ 94 ] As the conflict rose and N.E.M.O. continued attacking American soil, the Justice League agreed to help Aquaman by attempting to prove N.E.M.O.'s existence. As the Justice League and Tula (The Regent of Atlantis) headed to the White House with the proof the F.B.I agents found, Arthur travelled to fend off U.S. forces invading Atlantis. Arthur discovered that his adversaries were actually N.E.M.O. and not Americans. He attempted to capture them as proof of N.E.M.O.'s involvement, however their heads exploded from a coral implant in their heads which was triggered by a strong signal. [ 95 ]
After learning about the League's failure to negotiate with the President , Arthur consolidated with his council on what to do next but was attacked by a covert group of U.S. soldiers known as Aquamarines , who were biologically engineered to kill the King of Atlantis. Aquaman survived the assassination attempt and incarcerated the Aquamarines, it was then that Aquaman realized he could track the signal put off by the coral brain bombs to their source, leading him to the leader of N.E.M.O.. Aquaman tracked the signal to its source where he discovered that Black Manta was the "Fisher King" who had orchestrated the entire war. [ 96 ] After defeating Manta and his N.E.M.O. forces, the Fisher King blew himself and his men up in an attempt to leave no proof of N.E.M.O.'s existence, seemingly killing him and his lieutenant Black Jack . After having a meeting with the President and providing proof of N.E.M.O.'s existence, Aquaman was able to redevelop peaceful relations with the surface world. [ 97 ]
Warhead
Aquaman seeing Warhead's trauma
After his conflict with N.E.M.O. and Manta, Arthur began a campaign of peace between Atlantis and the Surface World. This was going smoothly until he heard a mind in great pain, and after tracking it to its source at Beckman College, Aquaman found what seemed to be a machine. He was then attacked by people the Machine was controlling, and after he managed to defeat them the machine attempted to control Arthur. Aquaman learned that the robot was a man named Siyu who was experimented on to become the cyborg known as Warhead. As Warhead, he was leased to the Kahndaqi military and sent to target rebels. When victory was achieved, the Kahndaqis ordered Warhead to wipe out all the rebels but he refused as he saw it as an act of vengeance. The Kandaqi military was not pleased that he didn't follow orders and tried to destroy him. Warhead escaped and traveled across the world, seeking safety. Eventually, he fled to New York to find a secure location to begin repairs. [ 98 ] Now knowing the truth, Aquaman brought him to Atlantis where he could recover.
H2.O
After negotiating with Warhead Aquaman was contacted by the Leader of the Aquamarines Major Ricoh of the reemergence of the Dead Water problem. She informed him that Scavenger had woken from his coma and told the government the location of the strange water, or "H2.0" as it was being called. Unfortunately a U.S. base was already set up at the location and the research team had gone missing. Aquaman agreed to help and he, Mera and the Aquamarines rendezvoused with Scavenger and the F.B.I. agents Ajar and Irving at the research base. [ 99 ] Upon investigation the team discovered a device that the researchers had been building before they went missing. Suddenly Specialist Ollie was murdered by a new Dead Water.
Aquaman at the mercy of Dead Water
After fighting off the Dead Water Aquaman and Mortimer began finishing the device, which believed would hurt the new Dead Water. Meanwhile the Aquamarines prepared a mini nuke to blow the sinkhole in case the situation got out of hand. Dead Water reemerged so Aquaman activated the device turning back into a human who was then shot by one of the Aquamarines. After identifying him as one of the researchers, Laurence Quinn , Aquaman decided to go investigate the sinkhole with Mera. [ 100 ] Within the sinkhole Arthur and Mera discovered a portal to another planet, upon entering the planet told Arthur through Marine Telepathy that it was called Tethys . [ 101 ] After analyzing water samples from the lagoon the team discovered that the other researchers were in the water shredded. [ 100 ]
It turned out that Tethys was trying to make contact but was keeping any non-marine life out as a defense mechanism. It was doing this by generating fear in intruders, if they kept close to the border for too long and got too scared they would transform into a Dead Water. On the surface the Scavenger set the nuke to blow to stop the Dead Waters from coming. However this made Agent Ajar transform into a Dead Water [ 101 ] , which in turn made Scavenger transform as well. To stop them from causing the death of everyone Aquaman threw the nuke into the portal severing the connection between Earth and Tethys. This ended the Dead Water problem once and for all as Scavenger and Ajar transformed back. [ 102 ]
Overthrown
Besieged by the people
After the events of H2.O the people of Atlantis became slowly more upset with Arthur's actions. The people set Corum Rath free and he and his followers attacked Aquaman and Mera. After being broken up by the high council, Arthur discussed the necessity of connecting to the surface world for the Atlantean people. However the council disagreed and had Tula imprisoned while the people decided on Arthur's fate. [ 103 ]
After Mera and Tula returned to the lighthouse, Arthur was voted out of the throne by the council and Corum Rath was crowned. Using an Atlantean artifact known as the Crown of Thorns , Rath placed a massive energy shield around Atlantis so that no one could get in or out. Arthur attempted to escape Atlantis so he could formulate a plan, but the authorities caught up with him and he was seemingly killed by Murk. [ 104 ]
In Hiding
Aquaman and Dolphin fleeing from the authorities
After being stabbed by Murk under Rath's orders, Arthur somehow survived and began defending people from Rath's regime in the Ninth Tride. During his time in the Tride he met a mutant named Dolphin who helped him escape the local authorities. [ 1 ] Dolphin took Arthur to one of the mutant havens in the Ninth Tride where Aquaman listened to their strife. Meanwhile Mera was using all of her hydrokinetic power against the barrier to no avail, and Vulko was plotting a way to break down the barrier and get help after he escaped prison during Corum Rath's release. A mutant crime lord named Krush caught wind of the rumors of Arthur's survival and sent a rogue Magician named Kadaver after the Dead King. [ 105 ]
Aquaman and Dolphin fought Kadaver but were eventually overwhelmed and captured. [ 106 ] After learning that Krush intended to use Arthur as a power play with the King, Arthur and Dolphin escaped Kadaver and fled the area. At the same time Atlantean warlocks were attempting to arrest Mera and Tempest after she had employed him in helping take down the shield. Also Vulko had gained the alliance of the Widowhood who were trying to break down the Crown from the inside. [ 107 ]
While Arthur was deciding his next move, Mera and Tempest fought off the Atlantean warlocks but were quickly overwhelmed by the warlocks' superior power. Tempest managed to grab a pendant from one of the warlocks which allowed the user to travel through the Crown of Thorns—with this pendant Mera was finally able to break into Atlantis. [ 108 ] During this time Vulko was able to retrieve the Trident of Neptune which he intended to use against the Crown. When Krush went to meet with Corum Rath and tell him that Aquaman was still alive he was killed by Commander Murk. [ 108 ]
Arthur rescued a group of rebels from drift forces who were led to the beastmaster of Atlantis Jurok Byss . Upon rendezvousing with the rebellion, Vulko returned the Trident of Neptune to Arthur who became the figurehead of the rebellion. [ 109 ] Meanwhile, a complication with the pendant made it so Mera couldn't breathe after she passed through the barrier, and she was captured by King Shark who intended to become the next big crime boss in Krush's place. [ 109 ]
A New Monarch
Aquaman regains his weapon
Aquaman and the rebel group- the Undercurrent continued to save people from Rath's rule, as he was now exterminating all life in the lower trides of Atlantis attempting to purge Atlantis of its petty people. Fortunately all the magical energy in the air empowered Arthur and his relic of power making him even more formidable then before. Aquaman and the Undercurrent concluded that to take back Atlantis they would need to bring down the Crown of Thorns so people would join their cause. Arthur and Dolphin travelled to meet with King Shark to negotiate a deal for his support. King Shark attacked Arthur but Aquaman was able to convince him to help the cause. [ 110 ] He then noticed that Dolphin had let off her Photokinesis ability so he rushed to help her, Dolphin had discovered Mera with breathing apparatus. [ 111 ] After breaking Mera out Arthur followed an Undercurrent member- Ondine to the Tower of the Widowhood. It turned out that Ondine was an agent of the Widowhood who was reporting back to Reverend Mother Cetea . [ 111 ]
Aquaman attempting to recruit King Shark
Cetea told Arthur that they were keeping Mera stable but the magic halting her breathing would kill her in ten hours, and that in order to stop this she would need to be taken to the surface to recuperate. Cetea said that Mera was to be the next Queen of Atlantis as she would be perfect for the role, but first they would need to save her and take down King Rath. With the Undercurrent and King Shark refusing to assault the Crown of Thorns, Aquaman went after the artifact himself. [ 111 ] Aquaman ran into heavy resistance from Magister Loke 's Silent School who served as the protectorate force to the Crown of Thorns, and were on the verge of being overrun by their magics. King Shark rallied his Ninth Tride gangs and came at the last second to aid the Undercurrent rebels and their leader, causing enough of a distraction for Aquaman to undo the enchantment holding up the Crown, but time was quickly running out for Mera. Aquaman, after being further empowered by the Quindent, managed to escort his wife away from the sea just in time to keep her from drowning. As she awoke he told her that he loved her and always would, just as Tula came up to them by the shore of their lighthouse at Amnesty Bay. His beloved now safe on land, Arthur told his half-sister that he was returning to Atlantis, seeking to dethrone Rath once and for all. [ 112 ]
The Chinese Justice League
The Justice League were alerted of a unwarranted presence on American soil and went to investigate. They discovered that it was a malfunctioning mech piloted by the Justice League of China and after bringing the mech down the Chinese Superman told the team that he was looking for a Chinese artifact that would imbue him with enough power to take down the embodiment of Yang All-Yang . Superman and Superman travelled to the location while Aquaman and the other Leaguers clean up from the battle. [ 113 ] However this didn't go to plan as All-Yang was able to open a portal to the demi-god dimension causing Asuras to come through and reek havoc. Due to their nature the Asuras couldn't be harmed by anything either League could throw at them. However the Chinese Superman was able to channel the power of both Ying and use it to defeat both All-Yang and the Asuras. [ 114 ]
Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
After saving Mera from Rath's regime, Aquaman helped Batman with saving a covert Wayne Enterprises research team from a natural disaster. He asked Batman what he was hiding from him and the League, a question to which he got no answer. [ 115 ] A while later Arthur and the rest of the League were forced to fight in an arena for their lives by Mongul while wearing suits of armor fitted to greatly weaken each member of the League, however this was not enough for them to lose the fight as they were able to defeat Mongul and get back to Earth. Upon return Arthur and the rest of the League travelled to Gotham City where according to Alfred Pennyworth a giant mountain had uprooted. [ 116 ]
After investigating the mountain Arthur and the League were greeted by the Blackhawk Squadron , a covert team created to deal with apocalyptic events. After travelling to Blackhawk Island , Lady Blackhawk (the leader of the team) explained that the island was once home to Carter Hall , a detective who was stabbed by a special dagger which made him and Lady Blackhawk immortal, who had been looking to discover the location of the impossible metal's (known as Nth Metal) origin. She said that during this investigation Carter Hall and his associates had discovered the existence of a Dark Multiverse much vaster than the Multiverse which housed an evil entity known only as Barbatos —it was at that point when Carter Hall disappeared. Learning that Batman would be the portal that would let the evil into the Multiverse, Aquaman and the over Leaguers tried to restrain Batman but Red Tornado interfered allowing him to escape. [ 116 ] After failing to capture him a second time Batman accidentally opened the gateway to the Dark Multiverse allowing Barbatos and his " evil Batmen " to come through. [ 117 ]
Days later Amnesty Bay came under attack by a mysterious figure who could command the sea. When Aquaman and Mera came to defend the town they came into direct contact with the strange woman. This being turned out to be an evil Batman from the Dark Multiverse calling herself the Drowned who intended to transform Amnesty Bay into the Gotham she lost. Mera and Aquaman attacked the Drowned but soon discovered she was superior to them in every way, using her strange abilities to dampen Mera's Hydrokinesis and summon an army of Dead Water 's from her world which began to swarm Arthur and Mera. The Drowned then proceeded to infect Mera, turning her into a monstrous minion who began to attack Arthur. Just before the Drowned could kill Arthur he was teleported away by Doctor Fate [ 118 ] and brought to the Oblivion Bar where remaining heroes like the Flash and Green Lantern were taking refuge after they had been assaulted by evil versions of themselves. [ 119 ]
Aquaman was then informed that an army of Demons led by Barbatos and his Dark Knights has invaded and that the Knights were probably looking for the Bar. [ 119 ] Soon after this Superman and Wonder Woman arrived at the bar and the remaining heroes devised a plan in which Green Arrow said that only items made of Nth Metal could harm the creatures of the Dark Multiverse. [ 119 ] The heroes then fled from the bar as the Dark Knights arrived, with Nightmaster sacrificing himself so everyone could escape. After this Aquaman and Deathstroke were tasked with finding a piece of Nth Metal in the Marianas Trench. [ 119 ]
While searching for the Nth Metal, Cyborg attempted to create a link between the search teams for better coordination, however Aquaman was suddenly whisked through a portal to a nightmarish Batcave where the Drowned resided. [ 120 ] After a brief struggle with the Drowned and the Dead Water-infected Mera, Arthur was captured and taken to the Cosmic Tuning Fork where the other members of the League had also been captured by their respective Nightmare Batmen. [ 121 ] Barbatos intended to hook the League up to the Tuning fork which would provide enough energy to open a portal that would allow the full might of the Dark Multiverse to come forth. [ 122 ] However after tapping into the full power of his Mother Box, Cyborg was able to break free the Justice League, the Resistance, and Raven , leaving the Teen Titans and Task Force X behind. From this Aquaman and Deathstroke continued their search. [ 122 ] They traveled to the tomb of one of Atlantis' first Kings Arion in search of Nth Metal. [ 123 ] There, he and Deathstroke were attacked by Black Manta who revealed he had allied with the Dark Knights. [ 124 ] After a short amount of time Arthur and Deathstroke were defeated and captured by the Knights alongside other members of the resistance. At this point Barbatos was able to successfully drag the Multiverse down into the Dark Multiverse.
Shortly afterwards Arthur and the others broke free and began fighting back Barbatos' minions. They then began clearing a path for Wonder Woman to make her way up the mountain and kill Barbatos with Hawkman's Mace . Towards the end of the fight the Flash arrived with Batmen from around the Multiverse to face down Barbatos. At this point Wonder Woman, Batman and Superman emerged from the Forge of Existence with Tenth Metal . [ 125 ] The trio then gave Tenth Metal to Arthur and Green Lantern while Doctor Fate freed the remaining heroes. Hawkman as the new guardian of the Forge battled Barbatos as the team defeated the Dark Knights, with Arthur killing the Drowned. The group came together and connected every mind in the Multiverse with their new powers. With the substantial might gained, the League dragged the Multiverse free of the Darkness and banished Barbatos to the Forge. [ 125 ]
After the invasion the team gathered at Wayne Manor for a party where they discussed visions they had experienced while wearing the Tenth Metal, including visions of Atlantis rising once again. They also exchanged troubling words about the state their universe was in as the Source Wall had been broken during the conflict. [ 125 ]
Atlantis Uprising
The Aquaman Family rises
As the rebellion got underway, Aquaman was joined by Byss, King Shark and the Undercurrent movement in battling a contingent of the usurper king's Drift squadrons who were sent to purge the Ninth Tride. Aquaman soon lent his assistance when the necrotized Kadaver, who had been corrupted by the Abyssal Dark, similarly cursed the soldiers of the Drift, turning them into undead sea warriors. Arthur soon found himself assaulted by his former comrade Murk, whom sent the accursed Drift after what remained of the rebel movement.
The two got into a heated argument about the current state of affairs, with Murk arguing that everything in Atlantis had fallen apart because of Arthur's weak rule. [ 126 ] While admitting he hated the way his former king ran the kingdom, Murk confessed that he purposely missed Arthur's vitals when he seemingly betrayed and killed him at Rath's ascent to the throne. He had hoped he would simply disappear and appease the corrupt council who had elected Atlantis' new king.
Instead of murdering his would be assailant, Aquaman chose to lend a helping hand; requesting his former confidant's aid in overthrowing Rath and his regime by using Murk's status as King's Guard Commander to sneak him into the palace as a prisoner of war. [ 126 ] As Murk went off to assassinate the king, Arthur ran into Rath's right-hand Urcell fleeing the royal chamber [ 127 ] having survived the vicious onslaught of the now hideously monstrous King Rath, who had been transformed by the power of the Abyssal Dark and slaughtered the council for their attempt to dethrone him. Rushing in at the last second, Aquaman saved Murk by engaging with the corrupted Rath. Aquaman was quickly overpowered by the abomination standing before him, even with his magical augmentations. [ 127 ]
Aquaman and Murk—bitter reunions
Murk soon aided Arthur but was grievously wounded in his attempt to save the former king's life. Seeing his ally's poor state of being, Arthur temporarily stunned the behemoth in order to escape with the wounded Murk. Back at the Widowhood's base of operations, Arthur was further chastised by the Reverend Mother Cetea for failing to take advantage of his weakened adversary's state and end Rath for good. [ 128 ] Arthur argued that all of the magic in his ceremonial weapon still wasn't enough to deal with the Abyssal Dark-powered Rath, and lost hope in stopping him. Vulko and the rest of the Undercurrent returned to the fold having been backed by the spirits of former Atlantean elders and bringing the corrupted remains of Kadaver along with them.
Elder Null disclosed the full history of the power behind Corum Rath, and informed Aquaman and his allies that the Abyssal Dark entity was a negative byproduct of the Silent School's magical practice from the early days of Atlantis—a demon either born from or drawn by the first mystics of the lost continent, which sought to plague mankind and the world. Having sealed it away after a ferocious mystic war, it sent out a sirens call to those susceptible to its influence for centuries, eventually finding the Atlanteans' new monarch to be the perfect recipient. [ 128 ]
Just as the past elders endowed Aquaman's trident with the remnants of their own protective magics, Rath started laying siege to the Tower of The Widowhood, as it was the foundation of the undersea capital. Knowing that if it were to fall all of Atlantis would crumble and die, Arthur moved out against his rival throne bearer. He was emboldened by the various enchantments bestowed upon his trident, but to no avail—the grotesque King Corum snapped Aquaman's ancestral keepsake like a twig. Having been cast aside by Rath, Arthur was soon met by Dolphin who had also been wounded by Rath when she tried to assist Arthur. [ 129 ] Arthur apologized to Dolphin for failing to be the hero she wished him to be.
To the Finish
The fallen hero's hope was revitalized seeing Mera come into the fray backed by a Xebelian armada. Watching both his beloved and all of his friends fight side by side against Rath spurred Aquaman to stand back up and get into the fight. Arthur urged Dolphin to find cover and rescue everyone she could, before leaping into battle and plunging what was left of his broken trident right into the eye of Rath, driving the Abyssal Dark out of the tyrant monarch and leaving him more fish than man. As the Abyssal Dark died, it told Arthur that it was its magical influence that kept a tragedy from taking place.
As Mera closed in for the killing blow, Arthur instead used his marine telepathy to command Rath away into a deep crevice somewhere. Mera questioned what the Abyssal Dark had meant when it delivered its final words, and Arthur and Mera were soon jilted by violent earthquakes that had begun taking place just as everything began to calm down. [ 129 ] Aquaman soon remembered back to when he and the Justice League fought back Barbatos and his Dark Knights. In saving the Multiverse using the Tenth Metal, Arthur subconsciously wished he could have a place to call home, one that was both of the land and of the sea much like himself. [ 125 ] The reality-warping power of the Tenth Metal had caused his dream to become a reality, and Atlantis had risen from the depths to the surface.
Sink Atlantis
Arthur vs. Suicide Squad
Arthur waited down in the lower trides even after the continent's upheaval, not wanting to interfere with Mera's coronation as Atlantis' new queen. Arthur was approached by Vulko and revealed part of the reason he was staying out of the limelight was in anticipation for when the leaders of the land inevitably attempt a stealth attack to undermine the new queen and her country. [ 130 ] This prediction was ultimately proven true when a surviving member of Rath's inner circle, Urcell, acted as a contact to Amanda Waller's Suicide Squad in a joint effort to depose Queen Mera and return Atlantis back to the ocean floor. Arthur became aware of these happenings through Murk; who still blamed him for raising their city, despite Arthur rebuffing the guard captain for aiding and abetting a madman who nearly destroyed it. [ 131 ]
Despite their differences, Arthur implored Murk to keep him posted on the situation, but also to refrain from informing Mera about the incursion by the Suicide Squad in their midst. When the Queen of Atlantis eventually became aware of said events, she was furious that he had tried to sideline her in the situation, but they soon came to an agreement and moved on in finding their insurgents. [ 129 ]
Aquaman and Mera were informed about the magically-augmented mini-nuke in the hands of Squad member, Lord Satanis . Though initially hesitant to his idea of calling up assistance from criminals in the Ninth Tride, Mera demanded her betrothed to gather an army of expendables and malcontents to address the situation, forming their own 'Suicide Squad' to confront the American black ops team. [ 132 ] Arthur went to King Shark and his gang, and the crime boss was naturally antagonistic towards his former ally. However, when Aquaman mentioned Waller and her Suicide Squad's involvement, he willingly aided the former monarch in preempting their plans, knowing full well what his former employer and her task force was capable of. [ 132 ]
Royal Lamentations
Aquaman and his newfound allies were waysided by Satanis as his magical powers were jumped up to extraordinary levels by the magical power held within the Silent School. To cover his tracks as he attempted to finish the mission, the evil conjurer threw up a barrier that neither Arthur nor his own strike team could surpass. Unbeknownst to Satanis, Dolphin was on the other side of the barrier. The former monarch begged Dolphin not to engage Satanis and to let him take him on alone, but she gave him a tearful goodbye much to his heartbreak. [ 132 ]
Aquaman and his team were able to penetrate the magical barrier thanks to Master Jailer 's efforts. [ 133 ] Aquaman managed to subdue Satanis before he could murder Dolphin, but with no real means of stopping the nuke, Carl sacrificed his life using one of the Core Vault's artifacts to seal its explosion. The team was able to avoid a calamity and thanks to Harley Quinn , Queen Mera was able to secure evidence of the real culprit behind the day's events. [ 133 ]
Drowned Earth
Main article: Drowned Earth
After witnessing their fight against the Legion of Doom for the Totality , both Aquaman and Wonder Woman predicted that Cheetah and Black Manta would soon make their move against them, which started with the mysterious death of Poseidon. [ 134 ] Seeking to find truth from the dead Olympian himself, the two heroes decide to take on a mission: finding the legendary key for the Graveyard of Gods , which could be inside an ancient ship in Antarctica.
While out for the mission, Diana retrieved the key, but then both her and Arthur were hit by a mysterious force, dragged away from the place.
Arthur found himself in the Blood Reef, the headquarters of three alien gods of the ocean, the Triumvirate of Sea Gods , who out of revenge against Poseidon decided to use their powers to drown the Earth. [ 135 ] But as part of their agreement with the Legion of Doom, in exchange of Poseidon's death, they would give Aquaman to his worst enemy: Black Manta. Not only that, but one of the gods, Tyyde , used her powers to strip from Arthur his connection with the Life Force , donating it to Manta instead. [ 136 ] Now with the full power of his nemesis in his hands, Manta felt unbeatable, and condemned Arthur into being sent inside a cosmic whirlpool, facing imminent death.
Thrown into the whirlpool, Arthur was saved by Wonder Woman, who found a way to access the Graveyard of Gods thanks to the key she retrieved in Antarctica. [ 137 ] Once there, they found Poseidon waiting for both: the Olympian, without apparent reason, decided then to attack Arthur, piercing him with his trident. Aquaman then found himself inside a legendary place, the Dead Sea, where it was told all great mariners went once dead. In there, he went through an odyssey, retracing his whole life, which made him realize he still held in his heart the memory of his father, something he had to let go to fully embrace his destiny. [ 138 ] Coming back to his senses, Poseidon revealed that what Arthur just experienced was a test, to see if he was worthy of knowing the true history of Arion .
Poseidon then proceeded to tell him how Arion was tricked by the Olympian himself into killing the Triumvirate of Sea Gods, who were never invaders in the first place, just because Poseidon never wanted to share the Life Force with other beings: this gave birth to the terrible Tear of Extinction , a weapon able to void the Life Force. So both the attack by the Triumvirate which drowned the Earth, and Atlantis' own history of reclusion were consequences of Poseidon's selfishness. Poseidon felt guilty about what he did, but now the Tear seemed to be once again the only weapon they could use to turn the tides, and defeat the three sea gods once again. Poseidon told then that the Tear was still hidden inside the bones of old king Arion: Arthur should go and retrieve it, soaking in it Poseidon's trident and using it to kill the enemy. [ 139 ]
Aquaman leading the Justice League
As the Graveyard of Gods was falling apart, due to the actions of Cheetah and the Legion of Doom, Poseidon used the last of his power to let Aquaman and Wonder Woman escape. Getting back to Earth, Arthur told Diana he believed using the Tear once again would be a mistake, and that they should approach their enemy with another weapon: the truth Poseidon revealed the about Arion. Getting to the Tomb of Arion, they were able to save Mera, Superman and Flash from transforming into sea monsters, also informing them about what they lived through. Giving to all of them protections against the magic of the Sea Gods, Aquaman explained Mera his plan to stop the drowning: find a way to convince the Triumvirate to side with Life again.
Aquaman discovered the true story of Arion, and thought he could have a chance for parley. Mera did not agree with Arthur's approach, but gave him the benefit of the doubt. Soon after, they discovered Manta convinced the gods to launch the Death Kraken against Earth, as they feared to be struck again by the Tear of Extinction. After freeing Mera from the Tear, which was making her cruel, Aquaman and Mera were both able to convince the Triumvirate to side with them, but Manta, full of bloodlust, killed two of the gods and tried to take over the Death Kraken. After Tyyde gave Arthur his powers back, Aquaman defeated Manta, who then realized the Kraken was going berserk, with no one able to control him outside of the dead god Drogue . To avoid the death of all life on the planet, Arthur sacrificed himself, hitting the Kraken with all his remaining Life Force. [ 140 ]
Alliance with Anti-Monitor
Finding himself transported at the edge of the Multiverse after his fight against the Death Kraken, Aquaman found there the Anti-Monitor , who revealed to him the true nature of Perpetua . He was then sent on a mission from the Anti-Monitor to help Flash and John Stewart find a shard of the Totality in the past, in 1941. Aquaman found his teammates, and guided them to Atlantis, where, after convincing Vandal Savage , he was able to use the Conch of Arion to send the Totality shard through Hypertime , so that it would reach the present, and being used as a weapon to counter Perpetua. [ 141 ] In the end, the plan failed, giving the forces of Doom, commanded by Lex Luthor, the chance to attack the Hall of Justice .
In the final conflict between Justice and Doom, Arthur was able to fully control the Life Force thanks to the Justice Totality, and participated to the final battle against Luthor. In the end, Perpetua won, and the Multiverse was put under the control of Doom. Arthur, together with the other core members of the League, was saved by the Quintessence , then embarking on a last ride to gather the Anti-Crisis energy to face Perpetua. [ 142 ] In the end, the League failed again, and once back to Earth, they found it transformed into the Batman who Laughs ' Metalverse, as he was now the new right hand of the evil goddess. [ 143 ]
Call of the Gods
After the Anti-Monitor sent him back to Earth, Arthur would first meet back up with his beloved Mera without the knowledge of the world at large. He would soon become fearful of the news she'd imparted to him about her maternity and opted to leave shortly after hearing it. [ 144 ] Upon his refusal to heed her command in staying however, the Atlantean Queen outright murders him in a fit of rage. Jettisoning her love into the afterlife once again. [ 144 ]
Found adrift upon another shore. Arthur; now going by the name Arusio, was welcomed to the remote island home of a gaggle of lost denizens located out in the middle of nowhere called Unspoken Water . [ 6 ]
They would all trade stories about who they were and what life was like before coming to live there from time to time. Something which was difficult for Arusio due to having lost his memories from his transition to the Sphere of Gods. One night while Caille ; the young maiden who found him and nursed him back to full health, was doing ceremonial dance to appease an angry ocean. She was almost swept up by the tide, Arusio moved in order to save her and the waters parted around the two of them in front of everyone who was present. [ 6 ]
As Arthur/Arusio started to become restless in his lazy days, he would come to Wee for advice despite earlier friction between the two of them. [ 145 ]
He would inquire as to just who and what he is to them, but Wee simply danced around the question rather than provide a straight answer, the old matron not really knowing the answer either. Time would come amongst the islander community to share their true names and greater history. [ 145 ] When the time came for their newest tenant to take a turn, the fire they sat around exploded in a bright green flare.
Shortly afterward, Tang , Mann and Agwé come for Arthur and plunge him into the sea surrounding Unspoken Water. [ 145 ] As he washed back up on the shore, Caille would approach Arthur with the intent of visiting her mother. Against better judgement of course. [ 146 ]
Arthur would head out to the private Isle of the Goddess Namma for the sake of appeasing Callie's mother. [ 147 ] Having survived their boat capsizing while making it to the island they'd been looking for, Arusio's companion began to undergo a transformation into the final remnant of it's matriarch's form. A battle would commence as Andy attempted to try and reason with the human heart buried within the monster. [ 147 ] When Namma appeared, Arusio curtsied to the goddess in his midst. Answering her questions as best he could while presenting her daughter to her. But the primordial laughed at such a notion, coldly stating that Caille was no kin of hers, but was little less than a living shell through which the manifest of the Goddess's missing power could grow and mature in. [ 147 ]
When it was revealed that Namma's reacquiring of the Callieach's life force would inevitably result in the former hosts demise. Arthur struck the irate divinity to prevent Callie's secession of existence. Namma would retaliate, admonishing Arthur for daring to defy her, but the amnesiac adventurer reject her claims to divinity & entitlement.
With coaxing from Arusio while holding off her malevolent sire, Caille would instead assume control of the beast within. Becoming a hybrid divine monster in and of herself, stemming the control over which Namma possessed for a while longer. Deciding to change tactics Namma reduced herself to salt particles at the exact moment Andy struck her and fled to the oceans embrace. [ 147 ] Sensing that things were far from over, Arthur implored Caille to remain vigilant as he knew their adversary would return. Sure enough, the tyrannical supremacy would rise from the sea as a draconian monster whom would assail the duo while poisoning the worlds waters with a lethal influx of brine. The two would battle the monstrous Namma as she tried to coerce her beastly offspring to return to her embrace; instead Caille, now fused to the Callieach, wounded her dracolitch sire. Distracting her mother goddess long enough for Andy to hop a ride on the beastly serpentine entity.
This plan would backfire however, as Namma would drag her would-be pursuer into the salted oceans causing him endless discomfort due to it's tainted hydration. In a desperate plea for help Arusio projected a telepathic call to all denizens of the deep. One so powerful that it even reached all the way to Prime Earth from the Sphere of Gods and back. [ 147 ] It wasn't long after sending out the call did Arthur get the most unexpected of responses, the denizens of Unspoken Water had come to aid Arthur in his time of need. Having reverted to their prior godly forms thanks to his unique abilities. [ 148 ]
After the Sea Gods of the World make their presence known, Namma too reveals her godly identity as Mother Salt. The fearless marine hero would do what he could to preempt the genocidal ancient divinity from carrying out her plans with help from his divine allies.
But he quickly finds himself to be out of his depth while learning from her progeny that their ancestors, her children, murdered Salt's husband after she'd told them of his infanticidal plans. Now she has returned with intent of murdering the world and everything living on it that spawned them as retribution for the loss of her beloved. [ 148 ] Andy is dismayed to find the sea gods opting to surrender themselves willingly to the the venomous adept after stating doing so would bring about the end of all life on Earth as they know it. Arthur watches helplessly as Wee gives herself to the leviathan that has become of their matriarch, and tries fruitlessly to dissuade the others from doing the same to no avail. Realizing their sacrifice did nothing to assuage their murderous kin's entropic goals, Arthur moves to confront the complete Mother Salt in a final stand. Until the now deified Caille suggests he use his connection to the sea for contacting those whom are lost to Namma. Reasoning that it was his power that enabled them to resume their divine forms once before and perhaps it can do so again, but only if he concentrates on a singular focus while they are apart of their grand sire's being. [ 148 ]
Taking her advice to heart, the champion of the deep uses his connection to the Life Force to reach out for his lost brother Tang. An extraneous process that yields results, as the vast resurgence within the mother goddesses being causes a massive explosive release of power. Dispersing Mother Salt/Namma's form back into it's composite sodium particles and restoring the Sea Gods back to their original selves again. [ 148 ]
But Arthur was far from finished as he remembers how easily their adversary reformed herself from such a state the last time. To make sure her plans for omnicide were stalled, if only for a short while longer, he continued to compel local depth dwellers to heed his command and scatter her sifting being throughout the ocean floor. The stress of all such monumental tasking however, left Arusio drained to the point of consciousness deficiency. As he began sinking into the ocean depths, Caille moved to drag him back to the surface. But she was soon waylaid in the task by the most unexpected of individuals to show up; Father Sea . [ 148 ] Back in the open air, Andy would regain his senses and walk upright towards the land with all the gods and his good friend Caille beside him and the ancient ocean embodiment.
While the lost deities bow in reverence to their grandfather, Arthur and Sea meet each other eye to eye for a second before the latter heads back into the ocean. [ 148 ]
In thanks to the oceans chosen savior with helping them stem the tide Tang the Vast would gift their nameless savior with body art to commemorate his commitment in defending the oceans majesty. They would also gift the wayward traveler knowledge of whom he really was as agreed upon after completing such a monumental achievement. Wee would secretly tell him however that what he was, is, and always will be was a hero and a friend; both to the hallowed forgotten and the sea.
Repun soon redirects their attentions back to the oceans, as Father Sea returns with Arusio's lost Trident. [ 148 ]
Mother Shark
When Mother Shark restores Arthur Curry's memories, it is revealed that Arthur actually survived the alien invasion and returned to Mera. However, they kept it a secret from the rest of Atlantis. Mera stops them from being romantic to talk about the politics of Atlantis and how the Widowhood wants her to marry. Arthur confesses his love for Mera once again, again proposing they get married, but Mera is hesitant with all the drama they've endured. However, she then reveals she's pregnant.
Arthur affirms that he loves both Mera and their unborn child but, afraid that he won't be able to give his child the life it deserves, asks to go home and think. Mera, unhappy that she and her love don't seem to be on the same page, loses control, "kills" Arthur, and is later found by the Widowhood and Atlantean guards. [ 144 ]
The Birth of Princess Andy
As Mera's pregnancy progressed, Arthur returned to life and Amnesty Bay, however, he did not go to Mera nor she to him. Arthur's nemesis Black Manta destroyed an ancient Atlantean historical site to draw Mera to the surface, where she and Aquaman met and wordlessly reconciled. Manta attacked the pair with Mecha Manta, provided by Lex Luthor. Mera destroyed Mecha Manta but the huge amounts of hydrokinetic power she was forced to use put her in a coma. She was rushed to an Atlantean hospital and gave birth shortly afterwards to a baby girl, who was named Andrina, or "Andy" for short. Arthur was present for his daughter's birth, and fell in love with her instantly, losing all of his trepidation about becoming a father or the kind of life they could have together. [ 149 ] Andy spent the first ten months of her life being raised in Amnesty Bay by her father and his extended group of friends and allies. She and Arthur would regularly sneak into Atlantis to visit the still-comatose Mera in secret. [ 150 ]
The Wedding of Arthur and Mera
The Aquaman and Mera Wedding
Mera reawakens after 10 months in a coma. With the ruse of a fake wedding to Vulko she calls to Atlantis the leaders of the 7 underwater kingdoms. Prior to the wedding, she has the entire widowhood arrested. Once all 7 kingdoms are assembled, to their surprise, Mera announces that she was dissolving the Atlantean monarchy and that she intended to hand power to the people. [ 151 ] Orm attempts to take power for himself, however, Orm and his forces are stopped by Aquaman, assisted by the Justice league and the Sea gods.
Following this Arthur and Mera settle down in Amnesty Bay with their daughter Andy. Soon afterwards Mera and Arthur marry in the presence of their family and friends, in what was originally planned as a surprise welcome back party for her by Arthur. [ 152 ]
Endless Winter
Following the abolition of the monarchy, Arthur and Mera intended to hold themselves apart from Atlantis to allow the city to govern itself, but they were forced to intervene when the Frost King's forces attacked the city during what was intended to be their honeymoon. The pair with Andy in tow, go to Atlantis and discuss with the Atlantean ruling council with is to be done to save the city. Arthur journeyed into the city's heating vents to meet with the Fire Tolls who lived in the tunnels below Atlantis, hoping they could be an ally against the Frost King. Originally Mera agreed to stay behind to guard Andy but quickly followed him, arriving in time to save Arthur from a Fire Troll with a hydrokinetic attack. The Trolls were in awe of this and swore loyalty to her. With her army of Fire Trolls, Mera and Arthur defeated the ice creatures attacking Atlantis. [ 153 ]
Death Metal
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Infinite Frontier
Warworld Rising
A ramshackle ship of refugees from Warworld fled to Earth, pursued by alien fighter craft called Warzoons. [ 154 ] Superman and Superboy rescued the refugees and destroyed some of the Warzoons, while the others fled. The Atlantean army captured and imprisoned the crews of the Warzoons and took custody of the refugee ship, which was powered by a mysterious piece of rock, known as the Genesis Fragment. Although Arthur was no longer king he was able to convince the Atlantean authorities to allow Superman to inspect the wreckage and try to interrogate the prisoners, although they did so only out of respect to Arthur and refused to let Superman take the power source or inform the surface governments that they had it. [ 155 ]
Aquaman & Superman battle Maric
Maric, the Atlantean scientist assigned to study the power source, mutated into a gigantic monster and attacked the Florida coastline alongside strange sea creatures which were immune to Arthur's telepathy. Arthur and some Atlantean soldiers tried to fight off the monsters but were overwhelmed, so he called the Justice League for help. Superman was able to freeze the giant from inside and the Atlanteans drove the other creatures back.
However, victory was short lived as Steve Trevor arrived and demanded that Atlantis hand the fragment over the the US Government. Arthur refused, telling Trevor that any attempt to take the fragment would be viewed as an act of war. [ 156 ] A pair of Task Force X agents working for Amanda Waller snuck into the crashed ship and attempted to steal the Genesis Fragment, but were caught by the Atlantean army. In response, the Atlanteans blockaded all shipping lanes across the Atlantic Ocean.
The Justice League met to try to find a solution, but were unable to come to an agreement. Both Arthur and Batman were uncharacteristically belligerent and began arguing almost immediately, each taking the sides of their respective countries. Batman demanded that Arthur convince the Atlanteans to give up the Fragment, and Arthur replied that he could and would not do so. Arthur almost stormed out of the meeting when Batman accused Atlantis of starting an arms race, but Superman shut their fight down, saying he would not allow a war between Atlantis and the surface. [ 157 ]
Arthur believed that Batman may attempt to take the Fragment and stood guard over the crashed Warzoon. Meanwhile the United States Navy sent a battleship to break the Atlantean blockade and despite Superman's attempts to negotiate a peaceful solution the two sides fired on each other. Superman decided that the only way to prevent them going to war over the Fragment would be to take it beyond both their reach and dove down to the Warzoon where Arthur confronted him. He admitted that he could not stop Superman but warned him that it would change things between them. Despite this, Superman took the Fragment. [ 158 ]
Deep Target
"Aquaman" and "Green Arrow"
Atlanteans from the distant past began mysteriously appearing inside the city. Arthur swore to find out what had happened and help them return to their own time. Atlantean scientists discovered a distinctive tachyon signature where the strangers had appeared, and Arthur searched the Justice League files for similar readings, matching them to emissions detected from a small building in Star City . Arthur broke into the building and found himself in a seemingly infinite hallway. He met his teammate Green Arrow in the hallway as they fought off henchmen, and they realized that the infinite hallway was an illusion. Arthur stole a pair of goggles from a henchman which allowed him to see the building as it truly was. He spotted a door and the two went through it, finding a laboratory seemingly with a group of hostages bound in the center. Oliver rushed over to save them but Arthur could not hear the hostages and realized they were an illusion. When Oliver reached the hostages the hologram deactivated, revealing that they were standing on a high-tech platform. Arthur tried to tackle Oliver off the platform, while at the same time he shot out the platform's main projector. It was in fact a time travel platform developed by Scorpio , and the resulting accident caused the two men to switch lives and histories. [ 159 ]
Arthur awoke to find that he had lost his powers and was recognized by everyone as "Arthur Queen," the head of Queen Industries . He also had a secret identity as the vigilante Green Arrow with the archery and gadgetry skills to match. He deduced that Oliver must now be living his life and mistakenly believed that Ollie had intentionally stolen his powers. Using his intimate knowledge of his own weaknesses he developed trick arrows to exploit them and allow him to fight his much stronger opponent. He infiltrated Atlantis and attacked Oliver in the throne room, but was eventually overpowered. Oliver convinced Arthur that he was not responsible for what happened to them and the two teamed up to find out why they had switched lives. [ 2 ] They planned to go to S.T.A.R. Labs in Arthur's jet, but one of the pilots was a Scorpio agent who redirected them to a remote island where they were attacked by General Anderton , the leader of Scorpio's time travel project. [ 160 ] Anderton overpowered them and took them to Scorpio's base on the moon where he tortured them for information, trying to determine exactly how the accident had occurred. During the interrogation, Arthur realistically faked his death using a technique Oliver had learned in Nanda Parbat and which he now remembered. When Scorpio medics untied him to check him over, he escaped and freed Oliver. They fought their way out, only to find that the facility was on the moon. [ 159 ]
The two fought their way to the base's hanger and stole a rocket to escape back to Earth. Scorpio satellites fired on the rocket and forced them to crash-land in the Atlantic Ocean. Arthur almost drowned and passed out, but Oliver was able to save him and take them to Amnesty Bay. When Arthur woke up he found that the town was now inhabited by humanoid dinosaurs who attacked them, but they were rescued by General Anderton. [ 161 ] Anderton explained that when they escaped he had activated the "Tabula Rasa protocol," whereby Scorpio operatives would be sent into the prehistoric past to allow Scorpio to control history from the very beginning. Safeguards intended to ensure that operatives landed safely failed and many were killed instantly, the few survivors were fused with dinosaurs in the same way General Anderton was. This altered the timeline to such an extent that dinosaurs survived into the 21st Century and sentient, humanoid dinosaurs were Earth's dominant life form. As Anderton, Oliver and Arthur had previously been through the time platforms, they were unaffected by the changes to the timeline.
Anderton believed they could return to the original timeline by travelling back to the earliest point in time Scorpio had ever visited, marked by a device called a "time stamp," before any of the operatives arrived, and from there jump into the beam of Scorpio's first ever time travel experiment. The three of them constructed a working time machine and returned to the original timeline at a point two years in the past. As a side effect, Arthur became Aquaman again. [ 162 ] They destroyed Scorpio's prototype time machine and captured the Scorpio technicians and both versions of General Anderton.
Although it seemed like everything was back to normal, Arthur and Oliver could sense that subtle changes had been made to the timeline, which was confirmed when Arthur sensed a liopleurodon in a nearby lake. Oliver asked Arthur to check his memories for anomalies, and when he did he realized that in this new timeline Atlanna was in Atlantis and he and Orm were still friends and ruled Atlantis together. Arthur told Oliver that everything was the way it should be and he needed to get back to Atlantis. Arthur was slightly suspicious but not worried, and agreed they should both go home to recuperate, giving Arthur a communicator so they could stay in touch. Arthur discarded the communicator after they split and returned to Atlantis, cutting off all contact with the surface.
Eight days later Oliver attacked the Atlantean Royal Palace , demanding Arthur come out. [ 163 ] He was captured by the Atlantean Guard and imprisoned in The Aquarium, Atlantis' maximum security prison. Arthur visited Oliver in prison and apologized, but told him that he could not give up this new reality, even when Oliver told him that the younger version of General Anderton had escaped from prison and killed all the other incarcerated Scorpio agents. However, he reluctantly agreed when Oliver  told him that the changes to the timeline had made the lives of many other worse, for example, in this timeline Alex Santos was not simply killed on a building site but fell asleep at the wheel and accidentally drove off the freeway, killing both himself and two of his children.
Arthur said goodbye to Atlanna and he and Oliver headed for the moon in a spaceship flown by the older General Anderton, who had turned on Scorpio when they tried to kill him to tie up loose ends. When they reached the moonbase they were attacked by the younger General Anderton, who had been given super-strength by drugs. Arthur fought the other Anderton while Arrow and the future version of Anderton went to the time travel laboratory. They built "time bands" to protect themselves from changes to the timeline and then Anderton once again travelled to the earliest point Scorpio had ever visited, planning to deactivate the time stamp network to prevent Scorpio ever developing time travel.
The younger Anderton tried to kill them by deactivating the base's shielding and sending them into space, but Oliver was able to shoot the time band towards Arthur with an arrow just in time. The timeline returned to normal and they found themselves back in the Scorpio laboratory in Star City, having just jumped off the time platform. They went back to Atlantis and visited Atlanna's memorial. [ 164 ]
Aquamen
Although Arthur had claimed that all his memories had returned after his resurrection, many gaps remained. Eventually he remembered the sleeper agents that General Mako had placed on the surface all those years ago and began searching for them, claiming he was going to Mars on a mission with Frankenstein . [ 13 ]
While Arthur was searching for the sleepers he left Jackson Hyde in charge during his absence. [ 165 ] When he returned he learned that Jackson had been accused of launching a terrorist attack inside Atlantis and was on the run. However, before Arthur could deal with that the Atlantean Council was attacked by a new villain called Devil Ray , who had developed a poison fatal to Atlanteans but harmless to humans. Arthur deduced that the attack on the council was merely a test for a larger one against the entire city and tasked the Drift to search the city for poison bombs. [ 166 ] They were only able to find them when Black Manta unexpectedly sent Arthur a list of the bombs' locations. [ 167 ]
Atlantis then received reports that a unification conference in Xebel, where Mera was speaking, was under attack by Xebelian terrorists. Arthur rushed over with the Atlantean Guard and an army of sea creatures, but by the time he arrived Jackson had already defeated the terrorists and saved the hostages, although Lucia Hyde had been critically injured. Jackson blamed himself and refused anyone's attempts to reach out to him, including Arthur's.
Arthur met with Black Manta at an isolated bar in Iceland and told him about the sleepers. [ 168 ] Manta agreed to help Arthur track down Atlanteans hidden on the surface. He kept this deal secret from everyone, including Jackson. [ 13 ]
Orm attacked the United Nations Building and took the Atlantean ambassador hostage. Arthur and Jackson responded, and the brothers duelled on the floor of the UN. Orm told Arthur that it was the dawn of a new age for Atlantis and that the surface would remember to fear them. When Arthur told Orm that he would not let him win, Orm replied that what was coming was bigger and older than the both of them.
Arthur and Jackson defeated Orm, and after he was taken to prison Arthur again tried to talk to Jackson, concerned at his uncharacteristically aggressive conduct in the fight, including seriously wounding a sea monster that Orm was forcing to obey him. However, Jackson received a notification that Black Manta had been seen murdering a man in the streets of Paris and rushed off to capture him. In Paris, Jackson tracked Manta to his hideout and attacked his father in a blind rage, but Arthur stopped him and told him that Black Manta was on their side. [ 169 ]
Jackson knocked them both aside with a tidal wave and fled with Martin's body. Arthur told Manta that Jonas Martin, and presumably other sleepers, had been activated and took him to the hidden broadcast station that their activation signal originated from. The equipment required two people to operate it, and they found one corpse at the controls, meaning the other person was still at large. [ 170 ] They deactivated the machine and escaped the collapsing broadcast station but Mera tracked them down and demanded to know what was going on. Arthur admitted what he knew about the sleepers and she told them that Jackson had gone to Gotham City to confront the people responsible.
Aquaman, Aquaman & Black Manta team up
Arthur and Manta rushed to Gotham to find Jackson fighting Scavenger, who was equipped with upgraded armor. [ 13 ] Manta and Jackson fought Scavenger while Arthur helped Batwoman protect civilians. After Scavenger got away the three of them returned to Atlantis and Arthur told the Aquaman Family what was going on. [ 171 ] Mera and Jackson worked to build a transmitter to deactivate the sleepers, while Arthur took command of the Manta Men to foil any attacks in the interim. They successfully sent the deactivation signal but one of the sleepers, a man known as Bob Moss , was unaffected and managed to get into Atlantis and kill the council in a suicide bombing. [ 172 ]
In the aftermath of the attack Arthur gave Mera control over the vault of contingencies which General Mako had shown him all those years ago, and told her to use or destroy the weapons inside as she saw fit. Mera was still upset with him for his lies, but before they could talk Arthur was called away by the Justice League to deal with an emergency. He left, promising Mera that they would discuss everything when he got back. [ 173 ]
Dark Crisis
The Justice League were called to the House of Heroes by Justice League Incarnate , who told them that the Great Darkness had captured Barry Allen and was attempting to invade the Multiverse. Doctor Multiverse teleported them to where the Darkness was attempting to enter reality, which was revealed to be the ruins of the pre- Crisis Multiverse. They found Pariah building a portal which would allow the Darkness to enter their reality. Pariah unleashed the Dark Army , a band of cosmic villains possessed by the Darkness, on them. Arthur battled Doomsday alongside his Earth 11 counterpart .
Aquaman & The Justice League die
Green Arrow destroyed Pariah's portal with an explosive arrow, and in a rage Pariah seemingly annihilated the assembled heroes with a wave of energy. [ 174 ] In reality, they had each been sent to their own pocket dimensions, designed to be perfect worlds they would never want to leave. Arthur awoke on a world where his parents were both alive and together, Andy had grown up to be Aquawoman and every friend he had ever made was safe and happy. Arthur realized that the world he was in was too good to be true and, knowing that Pariah was watching, told him that he would escape and kill him. [ 175 ]
Lazarus Planet
Aquaman & The world react to the Lazarus resin
After the volcanic eruption on Lazarus Island , Arthur discovered a mutated species of Trench off the coast of New England . [ 176 ]
Dawn of DC
Knight Terrors
When the supervillain Insomnia plunged the world's heroes into a forced slumber, Aquaman and his fellow Atlanteans proved immune to his mix of science and supernatural. The Aquaman family scramblesd to protect the world in the absence of other heroes, even accepting help from a reformed Drenched . While Arthur and Mera looked after the unconscious bodies of Superman and Supergirl , they were ambushed by one of Insomnia's Sleepless Knights , before the Kryptonians recover and defeat the Knight. [ 177 ]
Absolute Power
Aquaman, Garth and the Doom Patrol were ambushed by the Task Force VII android Depth Charge , who stole their powers and took Aquaman prisoner. Amanda Waller wanted Atlantis to ally with the Bureau of Sovereignty and tasked Depth Charge with diplomatic outreach, believing that the Atlanteans hated superheroes as much as she did and would welcome the Bureau as liberators from Aquaman's "tyranny". Depth Charge had a much more realistic understanding and so came with an army of sharks and the powerless Aquaman as a hostage. Aquaman ordered the Atlantean Guard to stand down rather than allow them to risk their lives fighting Depth Charge. They complied, but Depth Charge flew into a rage, declaring that he was now king of Atlantis and they should be obeying him instead. During Depth Charge's rampage, Aquaman was able to escape to the surface with the Doom Patrol and join the assembled heroes at the Fortress of Solitude . [ 178 ]
Aquaman & many other heroes are powerless
The Fortress was then attacked by the Brainiac Queen , Global Guardian and a brainwashed Jon Kent . Aquaman helped to fight the attackers off, but they were soon overwhelmed and fled through a portal to Themyscira . [ 179 ] The heroes regrouped and Nightwing took charge of the survivors. He tasked Aquaman to lead a team to rescue Time Commander from the Bureau, as they had used his time-travel technology to make Task Force VII effectively indestructible. The team was successful, but Red Tornado was destroyed. [ 180 ]
The heroes attacked the Bureau's stronghold on Gamorra Island , and used a device built by Time Commander to release the superpowers stolen by Task Force VII. The re-empowered heroes easily destroyed the robots and fought through the Bureau's soldiers. Amanda Waller was arrested and imprisoned for her crimes. [ 181 ]
All In
The heroes decided to reform the Justice League, now with a significantly expanded roster and known as Justice League Unlimited. Aquaman and Mera attended their first meeting on the new Watchtower, which was attacked by Darkseid. Darkseid was seemingly destroyed in the fight, leaving behind a rift in reality. The JLU soon determined that the rift lead to "The Elseworld" , one of the two poles of the Multiverse, and it was now giving off a similar energy signature as Darkseid. Booster Gold went in to investigate but did not return, although he should have been automatically pulled out after ten minutes. [ 182 ]
Following Amanda Waller's campaign, Arthur was elected as king once again by the Atlantean parliament, who believed that strong leadership was needed in a time of crisis. He also gained Mera's hydrokinetic abilities following the mass theft and return of superpowers by Task Force VII. Several weeks after Amanda Waller was foiled, Jackson brought a mysterious pearl which he had found on an adventure with Miss Martian into Atlantis. He said that Garth was able to determine it was magical but nothing else, and he had a bad feeling about it.
When a monster made of water attacked Daytona Beach in Florida, Aquaman swam up to the surface to stop it. Using his new hydrokinetic powers he was able to dissolve the creature back into the ocean, but he then heard Mera calling for him from Atlantis. He swam back to the city at top speed, arriving just in time to see it disappear in a flash of bright light, leaving only the pearl behind. Arthur went to the Justice League for help and Zatanna determined that the pearl was a source of ancient power, but could not learn anything more as the peal was shielded against her magical scans. She sensed a similar magical signature under the sea and Arthur swam to its location, accompanied by Batman and Wonder Woman. He found what appeared to be an arch covered in seaweed, and when the pearl was brought near it a portal opened up. He swam through, hoping to find his family on the other side. Unbeknownst to him, when the portal closed it had stripped the growth from the arch; revealing that it was an Omega, the symbol of Darkseid. [ 183 ]
Aquaman emerged through the portal on an alien world at the bottom of a dry seabed. He was attacked by creatures called the Grindylow , figures of Earth folklore. Aquaman easily overpowered the Grindylow and made them lead him to their leader: the water hag Jenny Greenteeth . Arthur told her that he was just looking for Atlantis and didn't want to fight, but she told him that "The Blue" had stopped providing water to the world and she needed to harvest it wherever she could, including from his blood. She summoned up vines that bound him and dragged him through the floor.
He emerged in a basement, suspended from the ceiling by the vines, which cut him and allowed his blood to drip into a cistern below. Another prisoner, his distant ancestor Arion , told Arthur that he could use his power over water to control the blood and free them. With intense focus, Arthur was able to draw the blood from the cistern and cut them free. The fell into the cistern below and Arion said they should escape, but Arthur refused to leave and said evil like Jenny should be destroyed. He erupted up through the ceiling on a wave of blood into Jenny's throne room and attacked her. He sensed that she was possessing the body of another and forced her out, then ripped the Greenteeth parasite apart. Jenny fled, saying " Dagon lives" and she disappeared into the ground. Arion and the woman Jenny had been possessing knelt to him, declaring that he was the prophesied "Dark Tide". [ 184 ]
Arion and the woman who Jenny Greenteeth had possessed; who was revealed to be Vivienne , the Lady of the Lake, lead Arthur away from the dry riverbed to a wall of ice. They scaled the wall, and at the top found a lake surrounded by banks of ice with an anvil floating in the centre and another gate on the opposite shore. Arion told Aquaman that they needed to craft him a new weapon to kill Dagon and fulfil the prophecy, but Arthur angrily retorted that he didn't care about the prophecy and just wanted to find his family. Arion implied that Dagon stole them and Arthur, exasperated by Arion's cryptic remarks, demanded to know what was going on. Arion told Arthur that Dagon had taken control of The Blue and was hoarding all water in the universe for himself, meaning life itself would soon die. When Dagon recalled the waters to himself, he also accidentally drew Atlantis into his realm as well through the pearl, as it had its own connection to The Blue. Aquaman reluctantly agreed to wait for them to do what they needed and gave Vivienne a sample of his blood to create a weapon bound to his soul.
Vivienne and Arion created a magic shield around the forge and sent Aquaman outside as the mystic energies they would be using were dangerous. While he was waiting the gate on the shore opened and three mermaids emerged, including Lori Lemaris who he knew from an adventure with Superman and Batman. Arthur asked them what they were doing there and Lori replied they had come for him. She suddenly stabbed him in the gut, whispering an apology as she did so. A freezing poison spread from the wound, turning Aquaman's body to ice, and the mermaids carried him through the portal. He returned to normal and woke up on a galley sailing through space. Lori told him they were taking him to Dagon. [ 185 ]
Aquaman attempts to free people from Dagon's control
Arthur was unable to break his chains but was able to weaken the wood of the ship by drawing the water from it to dry it out and then smash his way out. He escaped the ship still in his chains and fled from Lori and the other Mercenary Maids . He ran into Vivienne and Arion, who were able to free him and give him his new weapon, Thalassa the Trilance Saber . With the powerful new weapon, Arthur was able to cut the ship in half with a single swing and scatter the Mercenary Maids. Arion told them to run back to Dagon and tell them a new king had come. [ 186 ]
The trio went into the nearby city to find transport, but learned that Dog had forbidden people to travel freely through The Blue. They saw a man being accosted by guards and, despite Arion warning him to stay out of it and maintain a low profile, Aquaman jumped in a fought off the guards. The man introduced himself as Captain Nemo and explained that he had been sentenced to death for exploring The Blue against Dagon's commands. Arthur asked if he had seen Atlantis and Nemo replied that he had, but it was far away and he could not take them told them there because his ship, the Nautilus , had been seized by the magistrates who ruled the city on behalf of Dagon. Arthur deliberately got himself arrested to enter the courthouse while the others followed him under an invisibility spell. Once they were inside Arthur broke his chains, the fought off the guards and ran for the Nautilus, then set sail for Atlantis. [ 187 ]
Before making the final leg of the journey to Atlantis the Nautilus needed to stop off at the "Haven of the Divine Deep", a place where sea gods drawn into The Blue by an event known as the "Great Ebb" had gathered, in order to resupply. When they reached it they found it in ruins and realised that Dagon had been there and likely left traps behind for them, but the Haven was the only place where they could collect the fuel rods the Nautilus required. They entered the city and Nemo lead them to the chamber where the fuel rods were stored. Also in the room there was a bottle on a plinth which Arion identified as a "Cask of Capture" and sensed an angry living being within. They were attacked by the zombified sea gods, who had been killed by Dagon. Arthur tried to fend them off but they were relentless and Arion was unable to banish whatever spell animated them. In desperation he opened the cask and a jet of pure water exploded out. It hit each of the dead gods in turn, purging them of Dagon's infection and returning them to mere corpses. To Arthur's surprise, the water then formed into Zan , one of the Wonder Twins . [ 188 ]
Nemo sailed the Nautilus into a flow-way, an undersea current that lead them to Atlantis' new location within a seaweed forest. They set down within the city and Arthur rushed out to look for Mera. He saw a redheaded woman who resembled Mera and swam over to her calling her name. However, the woman did not recognise him and asked what he wanted with her mother, to Arthur's confusion. Garth and Jackson ran up to Arthur, but he was shocked to see they were both old men with grey hair. They embraced him and said he had been gone for decades, when Atlantis had only vanished from Earth a month ago. Arion told him that The Blue drew from the future and the past, and reasoned that some form of time dilation must have taken place.
Arthur realised that the redheaded woman was Andy, now grown up. Andy, who now went by her full name Andrina, did not remember Arthur or respect him, believing he was the man who couldn't save Atlantis. Nevertheless, at his request she took him to see Mera, who was now elderly and bedridden. She asked them to watch over each other as she did nor have long to live, and warned Arthur that Dagon was coming. As Mera predicted Garth soon ran in and told them that Dagon was in the city. Arthur promised Mera that he would kill Dagon and return to her, but Mera told him he could not win and only asked him to escape and get Andrina to safety, then died. Her final words were "I... love..." Andrina was devastated but Arthur simply kissed Mera on her forehead and turned to leave. Andrina accused him of running again and not even taking a moment to mourn Mera, but Arthur replied that he would mourn her after he had killed Dagon. She grabbed her own trident and yelled that she would kill him first. The two of them charged out of the room at Dagon, who had transformed into a giant. [ 189 ]
Aquaman and Andrina were quickly joined in their fight by Arthur's new friends, but Garth and Jackson stood by. He called on them to help as he was bound by one of Dagon's tentacles, but Lori said that if they fought against Dagon he would kill them. Arthur retorted that Dagon would kill them all anyway and his former sidekicks decided to fight in Mera's honour, but as soon as they said that Dagon instantly killed them both. Enraged, Arthur broke free of the tentacle. Dagon started to overwhelm them and so Nemo shot Dagon with torpedoes, but he was unharmed. Dagon transformed into his true, monstrous form and Arthur called on Lori to see what she served. He charged at Dagon and Lori and her Mer-cenaries followed him, defecting to his side. Arthur almost managed to reach Dagon, but at the last second he was run through in the chest by one of Dagon's tentacles and fell to the ground, mortally wounded. Andy caught him as he fell, calling him father. Arthur whispered "I'm sorry" to her before he passed out.
However, Arthur did not die; instead he heard the voice of The Blue in his head. It told him that Darkseid's Omega Energy had infected the universe and asked him to be its counter and avatar. Arthur agreed and The Blue healed him and granted him the power he would need to stop Dagon. Revived, he charged at Dagon, blazing with energy and wielding a sword of water. He was able to repeatedly strike Dagon, cutting off several tentacles and his eye, before the evil god caught him. Dagon swallowed Arthur whole, but this was what Arthur had planned as The Blue had told him that Dagon possessed another pearl which he was using to control The Blue and kept it inside his body. Arthur found the pearl and destroyed Dagon with a blast of his new power. He then crushed the pearl and told his surviving allies it was time to go home. [ 190 ]
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Atlantean Hybridized Physiology : Like most Atlanteans, Arthur Curry is an offshoot homo sapien who is biologically adapted to the deep ocean environment. For most Atlanteans, this means they can breathe underwater, endure the pressures of the deep (among other adaptations), and can only spend a very limited time out of water. However due to either Aquaman's hybrid nature or his royal heritage, he possesses a number of traits others of his mother's side of the species do not; for instance he can spend an elongated time on dry land with little ill effect and is shown to be 20–50 times stronger, faster, tougher and more or less tireless compared to others of his race. Also akin to other amphibian life is his ability to not only function indefinitely within water but to easily withstand the crushing depths of the ocean deep, as well as the harsh environment of the sea itself. These powers make Arthur among other things a super-Atlantean as well as superhuman. Superhuman Durability : Tough enough to resist small arms fire with minor injury, the teeth of most trench dwellers break upon contact with his body. He survived an RPG blowing in his face and can thrive in the darkest, deepest bowels of the ocean deep suffering no discomfort. He even lived through falling back to Earth after being launched into orbit by Mera, coming back down hard on top of a sea monsters head, without injury. [ 191 ] He can also spend prolonged periods of time in the void of space without any discomfort although he still needs to breathe. [ 192 ] He also survived Flash channeling the Speed Force of an entire planet through his body without any injury. [ 193 ] Energy and Heat Resistance : Arthur has taken and lived through multiple energy blasts in the past, including being flash frozen by the dead king's ice magic. His ultimate resilience was tested when he dipped into an open lava bed beneath the sea and emerged unscathed. [ 36 ] Superhuman Stamina : Aquaman is able to function much longer than any human, without tiring or becoming weak. Superhuman Senses : Aquaman's senses are several times more acute than human capacity; he once even heard a police siren from several miles away. His senses are similarly enhanced beyond the regular human norm, he can see perfectly fine in the pitch black abyss of an oceanic trench as well as hear things from a good distance away even while deep beneath the ocean line. [ 17 ] Superhuman Hearing Superhuman Vision Superhuman Reflexes : Aquaman's reflexes are heightened to levels far beyond that of any human. Superhuman Speed : Arthur is phenomenally fast be it while running or swimming. In the sea he was able to outrace a spy plane owned by the Operative which can travel up to speeds of Mach 5. [ 194 ] He has also being able to race the Flash to a draw in a underwater race. [ 195 ] Superhuman Strength : Aquaman's super-Atlantean status enables him to lift insurmountable amounts of weight, for instance towing around fishing boats while tidal waves were crashing down upon them. [ 20 ] He is capable of knocking the likes of Superman and Wonder Woman several dozen feet away with singular blows, [ 196 ] lifting a 160,000-ton sea liner barehanded, [ 26 ] and lifting and throwing a sunken cargo ship. [ 33 ] [ 34 ] Some of his greatest feats of might include pushing a tectonic plate over the entrance to the trench's lair, [ 197 ] and matching the legendary Hercules blow for blow. [ 198 ] [ 58 ] Super-Leaping : Aquaman can make use of his powerful bodily muscles to launch himself into the air, either jumping on and off land or propelling himself out of open water like a torpedo. [ 17 ] Accelerated Healing : Aquaman is able to recover from wounds far quicker then any human. It took him a matter of days to recover from his fight with the Shaggy Man. [ 93 ]
Superhuman Durability : Tough enough to resist small arms fire with minor injury, the teeth of most trench dwellers break upon contact with his body. He survived an RPG blowing in his face and can thrive in the darkest, deepest bowels of the ocean deep suffering no discomfort. He even lived through falling back to Earth after being launched into orbit by Mera, coming back down hard on top of a sea monsters head, without injury. [ 191 ] He can also spend prolonged periods of time in the void of space without any discomfort although he still needs to breathe. [ 192 ] He also survived Flash channeling the Speed Force of an entire planet through his body without any injury. [ 193 ] Energy and Heat Resistance : Arthur has taken and lived through multiple energy blasts in the past, including being flash frozen by the dead king's ice magic. His ultimate resilience was tested when he dipped into an open lava bed beneath the sea and emerged unscathed. [ 36 ]
Energy and Heat Resistance : Arthur has taken and lived through multiple energy blasts in the past, including being flash frozen by the dead king's ice magic. His ultimate resilience was tested when he dipped into an open lava bed beneath the sea and emerged unscathed. [ 36 ]
Superhuman Stamina : Aquaman is able to function much longer than any human, without tiring or becoming weak.
Superhuman Senses : Aquaman's senses are several times more acute than human capacity; he once even heard a police siren from several miles away. His senses are similarly enhanced beyond the regular human norm, he can see perfectly fine in the pitch black abyss of an oceanic trench as well as hear things from a good distance away even while deep beneath the ocean line. [ 17 ] Superhuman Hearing Superhuman Vision
Superhuman Hearing
Superhuman Vision
Superhuman Reflexes : Aquaman's reflexes are heightened to levels far beyond that of any human.
Superhuman Speed : Arthur is phenomenally fast be it while running or swimming. In the sea he was able to outrace a spy plane owned by the Operative which can travel up to speeds of Mach 5. [ 194 ] He has also being able to race the Flash to a draw in a underwater race. [ 195 ]
Superhuman Strength : Aquaman's super-Atlantean status enables him to lift insurmountable amounts of weight, for instance towing around fishing boats while tidal waves were crashing down upon them. [ 20 ] He is capable of knocking the likes of Superman and Wonder Woman several dozen feet away with singular blows, [ 196 ] lifting a 160,000-ton sea liner barehanded, [ 26 ] and lifting and throwing a sunken cargo ship. [ 33 ] [ 34 ] Some of his greatest feats of might include pushing a tectonic plate over the entrance to the trench's lair, [ 197 ] and matching the legendary Hercules blow for blow. [ 198 ] [ 58 ] Super-Leaping : Aquaman can make use of his powerful bodily muscles to launch himself into the air, either jumping on and off land or propelling himself out of open water like a torpedo. [ 17 ]
Super-Leaping : Aquaman can make use of his powerful bodily muscles to launch himself into the air, either jumping on and off land or propelling himself out of open water like a torpedo. [ 17 ]
Accelerated Healing : Aquaman is able to recover from wounds far quicker then any human. It took him a matter of days to recover from his fight with the Shaggy Man. [ 93 ]
Latent Magic : Aquaman has the underlying potentiality to cast and manipulate arcanum. Normally he needs an item of power through which he can channel these abilities; like an imperial polearm of national design. An effect which is usually accompanied with a bright golden glow in his eyes, [ 112 ] but at times he's been able to use such talents even without his ceremonial trident. Indicating this power is more innate than reliant on a channeling apparatus. [ 129 ] Magic Resistance : Arthur is more resilient against arcane forces thanks to his dormant magical capacity. [ 133 ]
Magic Resistance : Arthur is more resilient against arcane forces thanks to his dormant magical capacity. [ 133 ]
Life Force Connection : Aquaman has access to one of the seven hidden forces of reality related to the life-giving powers of the oceans themselves. [ 199 ] This gives him access to a great many undisclosed abilities the likes of which he has yet to access on his own. [ 200 ] Through the Life Force, Arthur is connected to all living beings as he is to the life giving waters which they spring from. Enabling the established supernatural link to any and all sentient entities throughout the cosmos and back towards earth. [ 200 ] He can use this connection to determine a being's origin as he was able to determinate that the Voidsong comes from an ocean planet after being in close contact with it. [ 193 ] Marine Telepathy : While popular belief is often debated about Aquaman talking to fish or other aquatic fauna. [ 17 ] He can 'Hear' the voice of the sea and 'Communicate' with its many denizens living within it along with those who spring from it. Being capable of sending out worldwide telepathic broadcasts with ease, [ 32 ] and when necessary. Across space & time beyond mere oceanic psychic ability. [ 199 ] Something Arthur has been able to do since when he was very young. [ 201 ] He was able to assume control over the mind of the great sea Leviathan Topo but with extreme levels of difficulty as the stress of such an act left him comatose for six months. [ 35 ] It seems Aquaman has developed better control over his power as commanding Topo to sunder a dreadnought from Thule wasn't as difficult as it used to be. [ 71 ] Transformation : Through his use of the Life Force, Arthur could restore fallen gods to their divine selves once again. [ 146 ] Even revitalizing them after they'd been subsumed into the primordial goddess Mother Salt. [ 148 ] He could also use his powers to keep a divine beast from overtaking Caille's body and mind, enabling her to assume it's power without losing herself to it. [ 146 ]
Marine Telepathy : While popular belief is often debated about Aquaman talking to fish or other aquatic fauna. [ 17 ] He can 'Hear' the voice of the sea and 'Communicate' with its many denizens living within it along with those who spring from it. Being capable of sending out worldwide telepathic broadcasts with ease, [ 32 ] and when necessary. Across space & time beyond mere oceanic psychic ability. [ 199 ] Something Arthur has been able to do since when he was very young. [ 201 ] He was able to assume control over the mind of the great sea Leviathan Topo but with extreme levels of difficulty as the stress of such an act left him comatose for six months. [ 35 ] It seems Aquaman has developed better control over his power as commanding Topo to sunder a dreadnought from Thule wasn't as difficult as it used to be. [ 71 ]
Transformation : Through his use of the Life Force, Arthur could restore fallen gods to their divine selves once again. [ 146 ] Even revitalizing them after they'd been subsumed into the primordial goddess Mother Salt. [ 148 ] He could also use his powers to keep a divine beast from overtaking Caille's body and mind, enabling her to assume it's power without losing herself to it. [ 146 ]
Hydrokinesis : Arthur gained Mera's ability to control water after the mass theft and release of superpowers during Amanda Waller's war on superheroes. [ 183 ] This ability extends to any liquid or semi-liquid substance containing significant quantities of water such as mud or blood. He can control mud in a similar manner to water, using it as an offensive projectile. [ 184 ] Blood Control : Arthur can use his mastery over water to manipulate the flow of blood. He can use his power to shape blood into powerful waves, as well as project powerful blasts of blood from his hands and even his feet, to launch himself. He was even able to pull his own lost blood back into his body. [ 184 ] Cryokinesis : Aquaman can control and create simple objects from ice. [ 185 ]
Blood Control : Arthur can use his mastery over water to manipulate the flow of blood. He can use his power to shape blood into powerful waves, as well as project powerful blasts of blood from his hands and even his feet, to launch himself. He was even able to pull his own lost blood back into his body. [ 184 ]
Cryokinesis : Aquaman can control and create simple objects from ice. [ 185 ]
Avatar of The Blue : Aquaman is the avatar of The Blue, a cosmic energy fields which connects and pervades all water and aquatic life throughout the universe. [ 190 ] Electrokinesis [ 190 ] [ 202 ] Electro-Blast [ 202 ] Enhanced Senses : Aquaman can sense anything that happens in any ocean on Earth. [ 202 ] Invulnerability : His connection to The Blue enhanced Aquaman's already superhuman resistance to damage. He is able to withstand a full-strength punch from a possessed Superman and jump from the Watchtower in orbit above Earth into the Atlantic Ocean without suffering any harm. [ 202 ]
Electrokinesis [ 190 ] [ 202 ] Electro-Blast [ 202 ]
Electro-Blast [ 202 ]
Enhanced Senses : Aquaman can sense anything that happens in any ocean on Earth. [ 202 ]
Invulnerability : His connection to The Blue enhanced Aquaman's already superhuman resistance to damage. He is able to withstand a full-strength punch from a possessed Superman and jump from the Watchtower in orbit above Earth into the Atlantic Ocean without suffering any harm. [ 202 ]
Abilities
Occultism [ 112 ]
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Advanced) : Arthur has beaten Black Manta in one-on-one combat. [ 203 ] It has been revealed that Arthur was trained by Wonder Woman. [ 116 ] [ 204 ] Aquaman has admitted that he has trained with Batman. [ 205 ] [ 206 ]
Politics : As a King Arthur is an adept politician.
Master Swimmer
Diplomacy : Arthur succeeded in stopping two wars between Atlantis and the surface. [ 96 ] [ 196 ]
Swordsmanship [ 69 ] [ 207 ]
Weaponry : Aquaman is highly sufficient in the use of multi-pronged polearms.
Leadership : Arthur is the successful ruler of 70% of the World.
Fishing
Driving [ 208 ]
Multilingualism : Arthur can speak some Polynesian.
Weaknesses
Dehydration : Aquaman dehydrates at a rate greater than an average human.
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Shell of Sounds : Given to him by his mother. A relic that can contain recorded memories and dialog from the user, in order to convey their memories to future generations. [ 209 ]
Tenth Metal Armor (Formerly) : During his final battle with the Dark Knights and Barbatos, Aquaman and other members of the Justice League were gifted with suits of armor made from the element of creation itself. [ 125 ] The Tenth Metal enables the changing and reshaping of all reality. Using the Element X armor, all of Arthur's natural powers were greatly bolstered. Tenth Metal can also change and morph its physical shape as well as bring the wearer's thoughts and desires into reality. Arthur wearing the Tenth Metal armor caused Atlantis to rise out of the ocean into open air, as this was something he subconsciously wished for. [ 129 ]
Transportation
Storm : Aquaman's faithful seahorse steed.
Weapons
Thalassa the Trilance Saber : A powerful weapon forged by the Lady of the Lake . It can change from a sword to a trident. With it Arthur was able to cut a ship in half with a single swing. It is bound to his soul by his blood being mixed into the metal when it was forged. [ 186 ] Electro-Blast [ 187 ]
Electro-Blast [ 187 ]
Trident of Neptune (Formerly) : Forged from enchanted gold by Atlan, first king of Atlantis, the Trident of Neptune serves as a symbolism of the royal line. Arthur wields the Trident as both his right to rule and as a lethal weapon which can pierce mystical defences and draw blood from New Gods like Darkseid. He eventually lost this trident when the villainous Siren, posing as Mera, usurped his leadership and kingdom, but he has since regained it. [ 71 ] Arthur eventually learned his trident is empowered by magical energies. [ 1 ] [ 109 ] The Trident of Neptune strengthened him by awakening his own dormant mystical capacity, enabling to combat magic in many forms. [ 112 ] The Trident was destroyed during Aquaman's battle with the Abyssal Dark-possessed Rath, and currently sits broken in Atlantis. [ 129 ] Energy Transference : The trident of Atlan has a natural proclivity to absorb, distill, channel and redistribute magical energy both from it's host and outside sources. [ 71 ] Enabling the Aquaman to harness and manipulate his own inherent magical power through it, being able to create bundles of arcane energy to attack his enemies with. [ 112 ] His magical abilities are likely due to his regal inheritance. He has already been able to overthrow the Crown of Thorns using his innate magical power as well as resist the effect of others' spells and enchantments. [ 110 ] Eldritch Blast : Arthur can combine his magic and that of the trident to execute great explosions of magic; these explosions are capable of destroying Atlantean fortresses. Through his trident Arthur can discharge potent blasts of raw esoteric power which can put down even the most savvy of magic practitioners. Force Field : He is able to generate barriers of energy through his trident. Physical Augmentation: The magic of his trident seemingly made Arthur all the more powerful as he absorbed its mystical energies.
Energy Transference : The trident of Atlan has a natural proclivity to absorb, distill, channel and redistribute magical energy both from it's host and outside sources. [ 71 ] Enabling the Aquaman to harness and manipulate his own inherent magical power through it, being able to create bundles of arcane energy to attack his enemies with. [ 112 ] His magical abilities are likely due to his regal inheritance. He has already been able to overthrow the Crown of Thorns using his innate magical power as well as resist the effect of others' spells and enchantments. [ 110 ] Eldritch Blast : Arthur can combine his magic and that of the trident to execute great explosions of magic; these explosions are capable of destroying Atlantean fortresses. Through his trident Arthur can discharge potent blasts of raw esoteric power which can put down even the most savvy of magic practitioners. Force Field : He is able to generate barriers of energy through his trident. Physical Augmentation: The magic of his trident seemingly made Arthur all the more powerful as he absorbed its mystical energies.
Eldritch Blast : Arthur can combine his magic and that of the trident to execute great explosions of magic; these explosions are capable of destroying Atlantean fortresses. Through his trident Arthur can discharge potent blasts of raw esoteric power which can put down even the most savvy of magic practitioners.
Force Field : He is able to generate barriers of energy through his trident.
Physical Augmentation: The magic of his trident seemingly made Arthur all the more powerful as he absorbed its mystical energies.
Trident of Poseidon : A divine blessing bestowed upon him by its previous wielder, Poseidon, the trident granted Aquaman a host of mystical powers and enchantments as a means to help him battle the Thule. He eventually sacrificed it in order to destroy the encroachment of dimensions, [ 73 ] but has been lent a replacement by the gods since then. [ 210 ] Arthur was gifted the relic by Poseidon once again when the vengeful Triumvirate of Sea Gods, who were wronged by the Grecian ocean divinity millennia ago, came to drown the world. [ 211 ] After a lengthy battle with the ancient primal adept Namma with help from a group of old gods, Father Sea bestowed Arthur with his trident once again. [ 212 ] Aquaman bearing Poseidon's blessings Divine Empowerment : After receiving the blessing and trident from the Olympian God of the seas, Poseidon, Aquaman gained various mystical powers. [ 70 ] Weather Manipulation : Aquaman states control over the storm, rain, wind, thunder, and lightning was bestowed upon him. [ 70 ] Geokinesis : Through the trident's magic, AC can cause the very ground and soil to shift and turn at will. Sending rising stalagmites at enemies, trigger earthquakes, raise pillars of rock to uplift people out of danger [ 70 ] Seismokinesis : Arthur Curry can channel the thunderous forces of the earth through the Trident of Poseidon to tear apart the ground beneath his enemies feet. Electrokinesis : Aquaman was capable of summoning bolts of lightning from his trident. [ 70 ] Electro-Blast : Aquaman could project powerful bolts and arcs of electricity from his trident. [ 70 ] Hydrokinesis : Through both his blessings and the Trident given to him, Arthur was able to bend and manipulate water around himself for various purposes. [ 69 ] [ 82 ] Hydroportation : With an extent water source, Arthur could teleport global-interplanetary distances at will. [ 213 ] Cryokinesis : Aquaman was able to use his trident to summon large icicles from the ground, and freeze an Atlantean by grabbing him. Thule Magic Resilience : With the blessing he received from Poseidon, Aquaman was granted a degree of defense against magic, most prominently the magic of Thule users. [ 71 ] Bane Field Manipulation : Even before receiving Poseidon's gifts Arthur showed a limited capacity to bend the poisonous aura of Thule realm structures. [ 70 ] Flight : By Poseidon's blessings, Arthur could fly unaided. [ 214 ] [ 73 ]
Aquaman bearing Poseidon's blessings
Divine Empowerment : After receiving the blessing and trident from the Olympian God of the seas, Poseidon, Aquaman gained various mystical powers. [ 70 ] Weather Manipulation : Aquaman states control over the storm, rain, wind, thunder, and lightning was bestowed upon him. [ 70 ] Geokinesis : Through the trident's magic, AC can cause the very ground and soil to shift and turn at will. Sending rising stalagmites at enemies, trigger earthquakes, raise pillars of rock to uplift people out of danger [ 70 ] Seismokinesis : Arthur Curry can channel the thunderous forces of the earth through the Trident of Poseidon to tear apart the ground beneath his enemies feet. Electrokinesis : Aquaman was capable of summoning bolts of lightning from his trident. [ 70 ] Electro-Blast : Aquaman could project powerful bolts and arcs of electricity from his trident. [ 70 ] Hydrokinesis : Through both his blessings and the Trident given to him, Arthur was able to bend and manipulate water around himself for various purposes. [ 69 ] [ 82 ] Hydroportation : With an extent water source, Arthur could teleport global-interplanetary distances at will. [ 213 ] Cryokinesis : Aquaman was able to use his trident to summon large icicles from the ground, and freeze an Atlantean by grabbing him. Thule Magic Resilience : With the blessing he received from Poseidon, Aquaman was granted a degree of defense against magic, most prominently the magic of Thule users. [ 71 ] Bane Field Manipulation : Even before receiving Poseidon's gifts Arthur showed a limited capacity to bend the poisonous aura of Thule realm structures. [ 70 ] Flight : By Poseidon's blessings, Arthur could fly unaided. [ 214 ] [ 73 ]
Weather Manipulation : Aquaman states control over the storm, rain, wind, thunder, and lightning was bestowed upon him. [ 70 ]
Geokinesis : Through the trident's magic, AC can cause the very ground and soil to shift and turn at will. Sending rising stalagmites at enemies, trigger earthquakes, raise pillars of rock to uplift people out of danger [ 70 ] Seismokinesis : Arthur Curry can channel the thunderous forces of the earth through the Trident of Poseidon to tear apart the ground beneath his enemies feet.
Seismokinesis : Arthur Curry can channel the thunderous forces of the earth through the Trident of Poseidon to tear apart the ground beneath his enemies feet.
Electrokinesis : Aquaman was capable of summoning bolts of lightning from his trident. [ 70 ] Electro-Blast : Aquaman could project powerful bolts and arcs of electricity from his trident. [ 70 ]
Electro-Blast : Aquaman could project powerful bolts and arcs of electricity from his trident. [ 70 ]
Hydrokinesis : Through both his blessings and the Trident given to him, Arthur was able to bend and manipulate water around himself for various purposes. [ 69 ] [ 82 ] Hydroportation : With an extent water source, Arthur could teleport global-interplanetary distances at will. [ 213 ]
Hydroportation : With an extent water source, Arthur could teleport global-interplanetary distances at will. [ 213 ]
Cryokinesis : Aquaman was able to use his trident to summon large icicles from the ground, and freeze an Atlantean by grabbing him.
Thule Magic Resilience : With the blessing he received from Poseidon, Aquaman was granted a degree of defense against magic, most prominently the magic of Thule users. [ 71 ]
Bane Field Manipulation : Even before receiving Poseidon's gifts Arthur showed a limited capacity to bend the poisonous aura of Thule realm structures. [ 70 ]
Flight : By Poseidon's blessings, Arthur could fly unaided. [ 214 ] [ 73 ]
Notes
Aquaman was created by Mort Weisinger and Paul Norris , first appearing  in More Fun Comics #73 . However, Aquaman first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Justice League (Volume 2) #1 by Geoff Johns and Jim Lee .
Aquaman (Arthur Curry) appears as Aquaman (Prime) a playable character in the Infinite Crisis video game.
Recommended Reading
Aquaman (Volume  7)
Aquaman (Volume  8)
Aquaman and the Others (Volume  1)
Justice League (Volume  2)
Justice League (Volume  3)
Related
Appearances of Aquaman (Arthur Curry)
Images featuring Aquaman (Arthur Curry)
Quotations by or about Aquaman (Arthur Curry)
Character Gallery: Aquaman (Arthur Curry)
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Aquaman (Volume 8) #25
↑ 2.0 2.1 Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #1
↑ 3.0 3.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #22
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 New History of the DC Universe #2
↑ DC Power 2024 #1
↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 Aquaman (Volume 8) #43
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #2
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #0
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #8
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #5
↑ FCBD Dark Crisis Special Edition #0
↑ DC Power 2024 #1
↑ 13.0 13.1 13.2 13.3 Aquamen #3
↑ 14.0 14.1 Titans Hunt (Volume  1)
↑ DC's Harley Quinn Romances #1
↑ Superman: Kal-El Returns Special #1
↑ 17.0 17.1 17.2 17.3 Aquaman (Volume 7) #1
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #2
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #5
↑ 20.0 20.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #7
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #10
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #13
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #7
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #8
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #9
↑ 26.0 26.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #10
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #12
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #13
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #14
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #16
↑ 32.0 32.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #17
↑ 33.0 33.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #21
↑ 34.0 34.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #22
↑ 35.0 35.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #23
↑ 36.0 36.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #25
↑ Aquaman Annual (Volume 7) #1
↑ Aquaman and the Others #1
↑ Aquaman and the Others #3
↑ Aquaman and the Others #5
↑ Aquaman and the Others #6
↑ Aquaman and the Others #7
↑ Aquaman and the Others #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #18
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #20
↑ 46.0 46.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #22
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #6
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #7
↑ Justice League Dark #23
↑ 50.0 50.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #24
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #13
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #9
↑ Forever Evil #7
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #30
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #32
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #33
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #34
↑ 58.0 58.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #30
↑ Aquaman Annual (Volume 7) #2
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #31
↑ Swamp Thing (Volume 5) #32
↑ 62.0 62.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #32
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #33
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #34
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #35
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #37
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #38
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #40
↑ 69.0 69.1 69.2 Aquaman (Volume 7) #41
↑ 70.0 70.1 70.2 70.3 70.4 70.5 70.6 Aquaman (Volume 7) #42
↑ 71.0 71.1 71.2 71.3 71.4 71.5 Aquaman (Volume 7) #43
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #47
↑ 73.0 73.1 73.2 Aquaman (Volume 7) #48
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #49
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #52
↑ Justice League of America #1
↑ Justice League of America #2
↑ Justice League of America #6
↑ Justice League of America #7
↑ Justice League of America #8
↑ Justice League of America #9
↑ 82.0 82.1 Justice League of America #10
↑ DC Universe Rebirth #1
↑ Aquaman: Rebirth #1
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #1
↑ 86.0 86.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #2
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #3
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #5
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #6
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #7
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #8
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #9
↑ 93.0 93.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #11
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #12
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #13
↑ 96.0 96.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #14
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #15
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #18
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #19
↑ 100.0 100.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #20
↑ 101.0 101.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #21
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #22
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #23
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #24
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #26
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #27
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #28
↑ 108.0 108.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #29
↑ 109.0 109.1 109.2 Aquaman (Volume 8) #30
↑ 110.0 110.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #31
↑ 111.0 111.1 111.2 Aquaman (Volume 8) #32
↑ 112.0 112.1 112.2 112.3 112.4 Aquaman (Volume 8) #33
↑ New Super-Man #17
↑ New Super-Man #18
↑ Dark Days: The Forge #1
↑ 116.0 116.1 116.2 Dark Nights: Metal #1
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #2
↑ Batman: The Drowned #1
↑ 119.0 119.1 119.2 119.3 Dark Nights: Metal #3
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #33
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #32
↑ 122.0 122.1 Justice League (Volume 3) #33
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #4
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #5
↑ 125.0 125.1 125.2 125.3 125.4 Dark Nights: Metal #6
↑ 126.0 126.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #35
↑ 127.0 127.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #36
↑ 128.0 128.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #37
↑ 129.0 129.1 129.2 129.3 129.4 129.5 Aquaman (Volume 8) #38
↑ Suicide Squad (Volume 5) #45
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #39
↑ 132.0 132.1 132.2 Suicide Squad (Volume 5) #46
↑ 133.0 133.1 133.2 Aquaman (Volume 8) #40
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #9
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #10
↑ Justice League/Aquaman: Drowned Earth #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #11
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #42
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #12
↑ Aquaman/Justice League: Drowned Earth #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #33
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #39
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #1
↑ 144.0 144.1 144.2 Aquaman (Volume 8) #49
↑ 145.0 145.1 145.2 Aquaman (Volume 8) #44
↑ 146.0 146.1 146.2 Aquaman (Volume 8) #45
↑ 147.0 147.1 147.2 147.3 147.4 Aquaman (Volume 8) #46
↑ 148.0 148.1 148.2 148.3 148.4 148.5 148.6 148.7 Aquaman (Volume 8) #47
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #57
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #58
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #61
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #65
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #66
↑ Action Comics #1030
↑ Action Comics #1031
↑ Action Comics #1032
↑ Action Comics #1033
↑ Action Comics #1034
↑ 159.0 159.1 Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #3
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #2
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #4
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #5
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #6
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #7
↑ Aquaman: The Becoming #1
↑ Black Manta #4
↑ Black Manta #6
↑ Aquaman: The Becoming #6
↑ Aquamen #1
↑ Aquamen #2
↑ Aquamen #4
↑ Aquamen #5
↑ Aquamen #6
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #75
↑ Dark Crisis: Worlds Without a Justice League - Superman #1
↑ Lazarus Planet: We Once Were Gods #1
↑ Knight Terrors: Superman #1 – 2
↑ Absolute Power: Task Force VII #2
↑ Absolute Power #2
↑ Absolute Power #3
↑ Absolute Power #4
↑ DC All In Special #1
↑ 183.0 183.1 Aquaman (Volume 9) #1
↑ 184.0 184.1 184.2 Aquaman (Volume 9) #2
↑ 185.0 185.1 Aquaman (Volume 9) #3
↑ 186.0 186.1 Aquaman (Volume 9) #4
↑ 187.0 187.1 Aquaman (Volume 9) #5
↑ Aquaman (Volume 9) #6
↑ Aquaman (Volume 9) #7
↑ 190.0 190.1 190.2 Aquaman (Volume 9) #8
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #26
↑ Aquaman & The Flash: Voidsong #1
↑ 193.0 193.1 Aquaman & The Flash: Voidsong #3
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #11
↑ Aquaman & The Flash: Voidsong #2
↑ 196.0 196.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #17
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #4
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #29
↑ 199.0 199.1 Justice League/Aquaman: Drowned Earth #1
↑ 200.0 200.1 Aquaman/Justice League: Drowned Earth #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #10
↑ 202.0 202.1 202.2 202.3 Aquaman (Volume 9) #9
↑ Justice League/Aquaman: Drowned Earth #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #3
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #19
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #34
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #5
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #50
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #12
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #48
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #44
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #46
This character is or was an ally of Aquaman , and a member of the Aqua-Family and/or its supporting cast. This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Aquaman Supporting Cast " category. See also: Aquaman Villains .
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.

Arsenal(disambiguation)
Roy Harper ( 2011 - Present ) Roy Harper Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Roy Harper ( 2011 - Present )
Arsenal is the alter-ego of several characters in the DC Universe . It is most prominently used by Roy Harper , who took it after graduating from his role as Green Arrow 's sidekick Speedy and dropped it when he became Red Arrow . Roy returned to his role after his daughter Lian was murdered during Justice League: Cry for Justice . He has been a member of the Titans , Checkmate , Suicide Squad , the Outsiders and the Outlaws .
Harper first began using the name and costume of Arsenal in New Titans #99 ( 1993 ), by Marv Wolfman and Tom Grummett .
Contents
1 Others
2 Multiverse 2.1 Elseworlds 2.2 Possible Futures
2.1 Elseworlds
2.2 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 Teen Titans (TV Series) Multiverse 3.2 Others
3.1 Teen Titans (TV Series) Multiverse
3.2 Others
4 Comics
5 See Also
Others
Multiverse
Elseworlds
Possible Futures
Other Media
Teen Titans (TV Series) Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Arsenal Titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Arsenal
Cover Gallery: Arsenal
Roy Harper

Atom(disambiguation)
Ryan Choi ( 2016 - Present ) Ryan Choi Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Ryan Choi ( 2016 - Present )
The Atom is a legacy super-hero name, primarily associated with the ability to shrink in size. The original was Al Pratt during the Golden Age , a diminutive man with superhuman strength; he was a founding member of the Justice Society . Ray Palmer took the name during the Silver Age , a physics professor at Ivy University who developed equipment to shrink himself down to subatomic levels while maintaining regular mass. Palmer has been a member of the Justice League , Teen Titans , Suicide Squad and Indigo Tribe . Adam Cray also briefly took the mantle using stolen equipment, and it was later used by scientist Ryan Choi until his alleged death.
Al Pratt was created by Ben Flinton and Bill O'Connor , first appearing in All-American Comics #19 ( 1940 ). Ray Palmer was created re-envisioning the concept by Julius Schwartz , Gardner Fox and Gil Kane , first appearing in Showcase #34 ( 1961 ).
Contents
1 Legacy
2 Variations
3 Multiverse 3.1 The New 52 Multiverse 3.2 Dark Multiverse 3.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 3.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 3.5 Hypertime 3.6 Elseworlds 3.7 Alternate Timelines 3.8 Possible Futures
3.1 The New 52 Multiverse
3.2 Dark Multiverse
3.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
3.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
3.5 Hypertime
3.6 Elseworlds
3.7 Alternate Timelines
3.8 Possible Futures
4 Other Media 4.1 DC Animated Universe 4.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse 4.3 The Brave and the Bold Multiverse 4.4 Lego Dimensions 4.5 Arrowverse 4.6 Others
4.1 DC Animated Universe
4.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse
4.3 The Brave and the Bold Multiverse
4.4 Lego Dimensions
4.5 Arrowverse
4.6 Others
5 Comics
6 See Also
Legacy
Variations
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Teen Titans TV Multiverse
The Brave and the Bold Multiverse
Lego Dimensions
Arrowverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Atom Titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Atom
Ray Palmer
Ryan Choi
Adam Cray
Al Pratt
Atomica
Micron

Bane(disambiguation)
Bane ( 2011 - Present ) Bane Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Bane ( 2011 - Present )
Bane is a brilliant world-class fighter and tactical genius who augments his great physical strength with a steroid called Venom . Raised from childhood in the Peña Duro prison on Santa Prisca , he was determined that he would destroy Batman to prove himself, and succeeded by breaking the hero's back during Knightfall . Since then he has been an international crimelord, an anti-hero, a mercenary, a government agent and even a dictator. His father is the legendary martial artist King Snake . He has been a member of the Secret Six , the Suicide Squad , and the Secret Society of Super-Villains .
Bane was created by Dennis O'Neil , Chuck Dixon , and Graham Nolan , first appearing in Batman: Vengeance of Bane #1 ( 1993 ).
Contents
1 Related
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Last 52 Multiverse 2.4 Post-Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 2.6 Elseworlds 2.7 Alternate Timelines 2.8 Possible Futures
2.1 The New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Last 52 Multiverse
2.4 Post-Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
2.6 Elseworlds
2.7 Alternate Timelines
2.8 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 DC Animated Universe 3.2 Lego Dimensions 3.3 Arrowverse 3.4 Injustice Multiverse 3.5 Others
3.1 DC Animated Universe
3.2 Lego Dimensions
3.3 Arrowverse
3.4 Injustice Multiverse
3.5 Others
4 Comics
5 Other Media Titles
Related
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Last 52 Multiverse
Post-Crisis Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Lego Dimensions
Arrowverse
Injustice Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Bane Titles
Other Media Titles

Flash (Barry Allen)
The Flash Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Bartholomew Henry "Barry" Allen Main Alias The Flash Other Aliases Black Flash [ 1 ] Black Racer Negative Flash Fastest Man Alive Relatives Ulysses Sutter (ancestor) Bartholomew Allen (paternal grandfather) Nora Allen (mother, deceased) Henry Allen (father) Darryl Frye (adoptive father) Malcolm Thawne (twin brother) Iris West (fiancée) Dawn Allen (daughter) Don Allen (son) Wally West (nephew/surrogate son) Wallace West (nephew) Bart Allen (grandson) Jenni Ognats (granddaughter) Irey West (grand-niece) Jai West (grand-nephew) Wade West (grand-nephew) Affiliation Central City Police Department , Flash Family · Formerly Justice Incarnate , Justice League Justice League: Team Wisdom Base Of Operations Central City Formerly Hall of Justice , Washington, D.C. , Earth-Flash.1 Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Engaged Occupation Superhero , Police Forensic Scientist Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 0" Weight 195 lbs (88 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Blond Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Robert Kanigher · John Broome · Carmine Infantino First Appearance Flashpoint Vol 2  #5 ( October, 2011 )
The Flash
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Barry Allen is the second speedster to be called the Flash . Using his superspeed powers, he taps into the Speed Force and becomes a costumed crime-fighter. He is also a founding member of the Justice League .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin 1.1.1 Early Career 1.1.2 Forming the Justice League 1.1.3 Later Career 1.1.4 Flashpoint 1.2 The New 52 1.2.1 Move Forward 1.2.2 Rogues Revolution 1.2.3 Gorilla Warfare 1.2.4 Reverse 1.2.5 History Lessons 1.2.6 Out of Time 1.2.7 Savage World 1.2.8 Zoom 1.2.9 Darkseid War 1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 The Return of Wally West 1.3.2 Lightning Strikes Twice 1.3.3 Speed of Darkness 1.3.4 Rogues Reloaded 1.3.5 The Button 1.3.6 The Color of Fear 1.3.7 Running Scared 1.3.8 Negative 1.3.9 Return to Normal & Dhawan's Betrayal 1.3.10 Dark Nights: Metal 1.3.11 Cold Days in Hell 1.3.12 Perfect Storm 1.3.13 Flash War 1.3.14 Force Quest 1.3.15 Justice/Doom War 1.3.16 Heroes in Crisis 1.3.17 Death of the Speed Force 1.3.18 Rogues' Reign 1.3.19 The Flash Ages 1.3.20 The Finish Line 1.3.21 Death Metal 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Infinite Mystery 1.4.2 Dark Crisis 1.4.3 One-Minute War 1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors 1.5.2 Beast World 1.5.3 Strange Attractor 1.5.4 Absolute Power 1.5.5 All In
1.1 Origin 1.1.1 Early Career 1.1.2 Forming the Justice League 1.1.3 Later Career 1.1.4 Flashpoint
1.1.1 Early Career
1.1.2 Forming the Justice League
1.1.3 Later Career
1.1.4 Flashpoint
1.2 The New 52 1.2.1 Move Forward 1.2.2 Rogues Revolution 1.2.3 Gorilla Warfare 1.2.4 Reverse 1.2.5 History Lessons 1.2.6 Out of Time 1.2.7 Savage World 1.2.8 Zoom 1.2.9 Darkseid War
1.2.1 Move Forward
1.2.2 Rogues Revolution
1.2.3 Gorilla Warfare
1.2.4 Reverse
1.2.5 History Lessons
1.2.6 Out of Time
1.2.7 Savage World
1.2.8 Zoom
1.2.9 Darkseid War
1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 The Return of Wally West 1.3.2 Lightning Strikes Twice 1.3.3 Speed of Darkness 1.3.4 Rogues Reloaded 1.3.5 The Button 1.3.6 The Color of Fear 1.3.7 Running Scared 1.3.8 Negative 1.3.9 Return to Normal & Dhawan's Betrayal 1.3.10 Dark Nights: Metal 1.3.11 Cold Days in Hell 1.3.12 Perfect Storm 1.3.13 Flash War 1.3.14 Force Quest 1.3.15 Justice/Doom War 1.3.16 Heroes in Crisis 1.3.17 Death of the Speed Force 1.3.18 Rogues' Reign 1.3.19 The Flash Ages 1.3.20 The Finish Line 1.3.21 Death Metal
1.3.1 The Return of Wally West
1.3.2 Lightning Strikes Twice
1.3.3 Speed of Darkness
1.3.4 Rogues Reloaded
1.3.5 The Button
1.3.6 The Color of Fear
1.3.7 Running Scared
1.3.8 Negative
1.3.9 Return to Normal & Dhawan's Betrayal
1.3.10 Dark Nights: Metal
1.3.11 Cold Days in Hell
1.3.12 Perfect Storm
1.3.13 Flash War
1.3.14 Force Quest
1.3.15 Justice/Doom War
1.3.16 Heroes in Crisis
1.3.17 Death of the Speed Force
1.3.18 Rogues' Reign
1.3.19 The Flash Ages
1.3.20 The Finish Line
1.3.21 Death Metal
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Infinite Mystery 1.4.2 Dark Crisis 1.4.3 One-Minute War
1.4.1 Infinite Mystery
1.4.2 Dark Crisis
1.4.3 One-Minute War
1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors 1.5.2 Beast World 1.5.3 Strange Attractor 1.5.4 Absolute Power 1.5.5 All In
1.5.1 Knight Terrors
1.5.2 Beast World
1.5.3 Strange Attractor
1.5.4 Absolute Power
1.5.5 All In
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment
3.1 Equipment
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Origin
When Barry was a boy, his parents' relationship wasn't going well, and while he prepared to participate in a spelling bee at school, his mother Nora was struggling to encourage him despite working double shifts and trying to get a divorce from his father Henry . He received the divorce papers on the day of the spelling bee, and because Nora had to work, he seethed and took Barry to school. When Nora returned from work, she was happy to see that her son had won the competition, but she was obligated to speak to Henry about their relationship, and so Barry was sent to the bookstore in the meantime. By the time Barry returned, however, his mother had been murdered, and his father had been placed under arrest, though he professed his innocence.
Fortunately, Darryl Frye , who had secretly been involved romantically with Nora, pulled some strings and was able to take Barry in. For years, Barry visited his father in prison, promising to look over all of the evidence of his mother's murder case until he found a way to prove his innocence.
Barry becomes the Fastest Man Alive.
As an adult, Barry's life of searching for answers about his mother lead him to becoming a forensic scientist for the Central City Police Department . Because the years in prison had worn on him, Henry gave up hope, broke down in tears, and admitted to his son that he had committed the crime. The shock of realizing that all of his efforts had been for nothing depressed Barry. On the night of a storm, Barry angrily tore his lab apart. Suddenly, a bolt of lightning crashed through his lab's window and struck him in the chest, causing him to drop the chemical vials he was carrying and douse himself.
On the night that Barry Allen would be struck by lightning, Iris West offered Barry a meet-up, an offer Barry's friend, August Heart advised him to take. Barry would ultimately be unable to attend as a result of the lightning strike sending him into a months-long coma. [ 2 ]
Early Career
After four long months in a coma after the accident, Barry was stunned to regain consciousness only to discover he'd gained super-speed abilities. Struggling to gain control over his new powers, he first stumbled from the hospital to his apartment, and then from his apartment to his old CSI lab, where he quickly clothed himself and was confronted by August Heart, who thought somebody was in the lab who wasn't allowed only to discover his best friend's presence, to his elation. August offered to inform Director Singh that Barry had returned, but Barry turned him down, telling him that he had a personal case he wanted to investigate first. [ 2 ]
Over the next month, he began experimenting with his newfound powers, testing the limits of his capabilities; in the process, he quickly discovered that regular shoes and clothing didn't stand up to his super-speed very well. In order to combat this problem, he special created friction-resistant boots using material salvaged from fireproof jackets Wayne Enterprises had donated to the Central City Fire Department. With his new equipment, he made an attempt to discover his top speed, an attempt that resulted in Barry inadvertently being thrown into the future, where he encountered a future version of himself in a version of Central City ruled with an iron fist by the Turtle . [ 2 ]
Barry quickly started to panic, but the future version of himself calmed him down. Together, they fought the Turtle's minions, before Barry's future iteration introduced him to the Cosmic Treadmill and sent him on his way back to his own time. In shock, he declared that he'd never run again, returning to his lab. While there, he received a text message from Iris, who wanted to arrange a coffee date.
Barry officially becomes The Flash
However, this was interrupted by the sudden attack of the Turtle. Before confronting the Turtle, Barry quickly saved Iris from an oncoming police car. [ 3 ] After Barry defeated the Turtle, he returned to Iris, who chastised him for keeping her waiting. However, he won her over, and they ended up heading to dinner at a nearby diner. Afterwards, they began a romance. Over the course of the next few months, they go on a number of dates and become very close. Iris' influence would later push Barry to make the Flash more of a public figure and a symbol for the city. [ 4 ]
Later, Iris tracked down the criminal Clive Yorkin , confronting him in public. The situation went south quickly, and Iris had to be saved by the Flash, who was shot in the process. Afterwards, Iris sought out Barry, hoping to confess and talk it out with him; unbeknownst to her, he in the process of trying to remove a bullet from his chest. She spoke to him through the door for some time before deciding that his lack of response meant he probably wasn't at home; he promptly opened the door, telling her that he'd been in the shower and hadn't been able to respond while he was clothing himself. Afterwards, they kissed and spent the night together. [ 5 ] Afterward, their relationship would become strained as Barry's obsession with solving his mother's case and defeating the Turtle worsened.
During a temporal incident, Iris was taken hostage by a future version of the Turtle, who was teaming up with his present-day incarnation. [ 6 ] While the Flash, donning his iconic costume for the first time, confronted the Turtles, Iris managed to disable the Turtles' technology, freeing the citizens of the city. Inspired, the citizens rose up against Turtle's minions and the Flash was able to defeat both Turtles, sending the future version back to his correct place in the timeline. Later that night, Barry and Iris had dinner. [ 7 ]
Around this time, Barry first fought several villains who would plague him, and his sucessors, for years to come, including Gorilla Grodd , Abra Kadabra and several armed thieves who joined forces as the Rogues : Captain Cold , Mirror Master , Pied Piper , Weather Wizard , Trickster , Captain Boomerang , Top , Heat Wave and Golden Glider . [ 8 ]
While investigating a series of kidnappings, Barry met Green Lantern Hal Jordan , who was investigating the same crimes. In the process, they discovered that the kids were being turned into gladiators. While Flash took the children back to their homes, unbeknownst to him, Green Lantern made a deal that the two of them would return and fight for the team that the children were representing in the "Arena World." [ 9 ] This would not be Barry's sole encounter with a fellow crimefighter, as a meeting with elastic detective Ralph Dibny, alias Elongated Man created a friendship that would last for the rest of their lives. [ 8 ]
Months later, Iris introduced her visiting nephews Wally and Wallace to Barry during the town's annual Flash Day celebration. Iris, however, was called away for work, and though she took the very young Wallace with her, leaving Wally with Barry. Wally and Barry's subsequent day together resulted in Wally being struck by lightning, just like Barry, and becoming his sidekick, Kid Flash. [ 7 ]
Forming the Justice League
Barry alongside an early line-up of The Justice League
Barry was among the founding members of the Justice League . While the team's actual first meeting is debated, Barry helped defeat Darkseid's invasion and participated in the subsequent battle with the alien Appellaxians , which resulted in them nearly being turned into trees before emerging victorious. The heroes, inspired by their victory, formed a team, christening it the Justice League, establishing a headquarters in the form of the Secret Sanctuary in Happy Harbor . One of their earliest foes was Starro the Conqueror . [ 10 ] [ 8 ]
Later Career
At some point a vibrational accident led Barry to discover that Central City's neighbor, Keystone City , which had mysteriously disappeared years prior, had actually been shifted to another dimension entirely. While there, he joined forces with his childhood idol and inspiration, the first Flash, Jay Garrick , and the two fought and defeated those responsible, some of Jay's old villains, specifically the Thinker , the Fiddler and the Shade . The pair then proceeded to restore Keystone to its proper place, and started to frequently collaborate as crimefighters. [ 8 ]
This encounter between two heroes of different generations may have been the first of its kind, but it was certainly not the last, as the Justice Society of America fully came out of retirement to defeat the Crime Champions alongside their League sucessors. The two teams began to act together from this point forward to battle any threats too great for a single band of heroes, such as the Earth 3 Crime Syndicate , which included an evil version of the Flash known as Johnny Quick . [ 8 ]
Barry travels to The 25th Century
During an early experiment with his own version of the Cosmic Treadmill, Barry would be deposited in the Central City of the 25th Century , where he encountered Eobard Thawne , a historian and fan of his who had harnessed residual Speed Force energy to become a version of the Flash in his own right. However, he quickly discovered that Eobard had been arranging incidents that placed citizens in danger in order to save them as the Flash, resulting in a fight and Eobard's imprisonment. However, Eobard would later return to plague him as the Reverse-Flash, also known as Professor Zoom. [ 11 ]
Eventually, Iris and Barry married. [ 12 ] They later traveled to the 31st Century , spending a month together. While there, the pair conceived two children—a pair of twins: Dawn and Don Allen . However, Barry was called away, back to the present, in order to combat the coming Crisis . [ 13 ] In time, Don and Dawn would use their inherited speed to become the " Tornado Twins ," heroes in their own right, fighting for good in the far future they inhabited. Don would one day father Iris' grandson, Bart Allen , who would eventually come to the present and join the modern age of heroes alongside Barry's successor and Iris' nephew, Wally West.
During the Crisis, Barry Allen seemingly died. In his place, his protégé, Wally West, took up his mantle, becoming the Flash and serving with distinction for many years. However, Barry hadn't actually died; he'd been lost in the Speed Force. Later, during an incursion by Darkseid , Barry was able to return.
After Barry's return, he was briefly infected by the Negative Speed Force . During this incident, he touched the insane speed cultist Savitar , who was apparently disintegrated as a result. [ 14 ]
Flashpoint
After discovering that Eobard Thawne was, in fact, his mother's murderer, Barry attempted to travel back in time and stop him, resulting in the creation of the Flashpoint . Though Barry was able to return and attempted to right the timeline, other forces would intervene. Pandora , in an attempt to strengthen Earth 0 against an unidentified foe, merged Earth 0 together with another , and a quantum being cursed by a Great Darkness from outside reality would manipulate the timeline, weakening Earth's defenders by robbing them of legacy and relationships. [ 15 ] [ 16 ] This included Barry and Iris' memories of their relationship and marriage.
Barry would also be robbed of his memories of his former sidekick, Wally, when he was pushed into the Speed Force by longtime foe Abra Kadabra , who cast a spell that erased the world's memory of Wally. [ 17 ]
The New 52
Move Forward
While on his first date with co-worker Patty Spivot at a technology symposium, Barry had a chance encounter with Dr. Darwin Elias , a prominent theoretical physicist who had designed a device that could re-code the human genome. The date and the encounter were interrupted by a gang of thugs who stole the re-coder. Barry managed to recover the device, but in the process, one of the thugs he was chasing died. What was worse was that he recognized the man—it was his old friend Manuel Lago . Fortunately, the forensics showed that something other than the impact had killed Manuel, clearing Flash's name.
Barry learned with the help of Dr. Elias' device that Manuel's DNA had been altered in some way, but was startled in his study by the sudden appearance of Manuel in his apartment—alive and well. Manuel had no time to explain himself, though, as someone began banging down the door. Together, they ran for their lives. Barry ducked out of sight to become the Flash, but was surprised when he emerged to see that Manuel had been caught by several clones of himself. [ 18 ] When they claimed that they had taken reporter and old flame Iris West hostage, Barry was forced to watch them take Manuel away.
The Flash fights to save Manuel Lago.
Barry learned that Manuel had been working for the CIA and had officially died 16 months ago. However, these clones. who called themselves Mob Rule and appeared to be suffering from rapid cellular deterioration, had found they're original and hoped to use him to lengthen their short lives. The process by which they intended to do this resulted in an EMP blast that cut power from both of the Gem Cities, and caused numerous disasters. [ 19 ] While Iris was trapped in Iron Heights during a power outage, Barry and Patty attempted to save Manuel, but in the process, Barry was shot through the head, and apparently killed. [ 20 ] Despite Patty's attempt to save him, Manuel decided to give himself up to Mob Rule, knowing that he was responsible for their creation.
Barry had not really died, though, and woke to discover that Elias had been kidnapped by Mob Rule in the hopes that he could save them. [ 21 ] Manuel had agreed to let Elias use his DNA to re-code Mob Rule's own DNA, and resolve their problem. Unfortunately, something in the process went wrong, and Flash was forced to stop it to save Manuel. Manuel was ungrateful, however, because the interruption killed all of the clones, leaving him alive.
Afterward, Barry revealed that he had survived to Patty, and later learned from Elias that it was his speed that caused the EMP blast and the problem with the re-coding process. Barry's super-speed was opening rifts in time. [ 22 ] To counter this, Elias created a device to measure Barry's built-up energy and warned him when a rift was likely to be created. It also served the dual purpose of storing that energy to be used to power the Gem Cities during the outage.
Meanwhile, Leonard Snart had escaped Iron Heights during the outage, and had learned that his hospitalized sister Lisa's life support was threatened by a lack of power, for which he blamed the Flash. In order to draw his enemy out, Leonard staged an attack using his new cold-powers, and the Flash was forced to fight him. [ 23 ] In the process, his speed opened another rift, which sent Iris and a few others into the Speed Force, and Barry Allen was thought to have been lost with them. In the aftermath, the Flash learned of Lisa Snart's critical condition, and saw to it that she gets the treatment she needed. [ 24 ]
To save Iris, Flash entered the Speed Force where he encountered a man named Roscoe Hynes who had been trapped there long ago. From Hynes, he learned that he was actually preventing temporal anomalies by running and that it was Hynes who had caused the EMP blast. Angrily, he attacked Hynes, and both of them fell into a wormhole and emerged in a city populated by intelligent Gorillas . [ 25 ]
Rogues Revolution
Taken captive in Gorilla City
Barry's sudden arrival in the Gorilla City was at just the same moment that Grodd was being crowned king. Unfortunately, the journey through the Speed Force caused Barry to lose his memory. Though the new king was eager to eat the visitor's brains, the city's elders believed Barry to be a messenger who deserved the honor. They freed him from captivity, explaining that the same power that gave him his speed was what gave them their sentience, but it was they who were to be the messengers for him. Barry was to be the Speed Force's vessel, and he was needed to run for the sake of all mankind. Soon, Barry regained his memory and defeated Grodd, who was jealous of his power. Though it would mean the end of their civilization, the gorillas allowed Barry to return home, where he discovered with a confusion that Dr. Elias was holding protests against him. [ 26 ]
Surprised by this turn of events, Flash decided to reveal his real identity to Patty, but learned that she had gone to Guatemala to solve the cold-case murder of Claudio Mardon , whose brother Marco had inherited the Mardon Cartel. She was caught and kidnapped by Mardon, requiring Barry to intervene. In the process he learned that Marco, known to him as the Weather Wizard, had gained super-powers, just like Captain Cold had. In the meantime, Patty learned from another captive that it was Claudio's wife Elsa who had murdered him and that she was manipulating Marco. Eventually, Marco learned of the betrayal, and killed her, allowing Flash to save Patty. Unfortunately, she was not eager to see him, as the sight of him reminded her of the loss of Barry. So, Barry decided not to reveal his identity to her yet. Later, Marco found himself recruited by Lisa Snart into a new version of the Rogues . [ 27 ]
To maintain the illusion of Barry Allen's death, Barry took up residence in Keystone City , trying to keep a low profile. There, he got a job at a bar frequented by the Rogues, where Heat Wave blamed Captain Cold for the dissolution of the Rogues. Flash was forced to intervene and have them arrested, but on their way to prison Lisa Snart, the Golden Glider, staged an escape for Heat Wave—but not her brother. All the while, Darwin Elias continued to decry Flash's name in the streets. [ 28 ]
Captain Cold was rescued instead by the Pied Piper , who had returned to crime-fighting in the Flash's absence, but Piper's intent was not to let him go free. Cold was rescued from impending police capture, then, by Axel Walker, the Trickster , who claimed that the Rogues had reunited without Cold's involvement. Meanwhile, confused by Elias' turning on him, Barry learns that the physicist was using him to further his own studies. As Elias prepared to make the announcement for a green-energy monorail system, Barry was surprised to see the Golden Glider moving at a speed faster than anyone else could see, and she intended to murder Elias for what he did to the Rogues. When he was too late to stop her from injuring him, Barry realized he was being framed, when the public saw him holding the wounded Elias in his arms. In the confusion, the Rogues use the distraction to get away with stealing the monorail train, and storing it in the Mirror World . [ 29 ]
Nearly 18 months before those events, Captain Cold had been leading the Rogues, and they had all obeyed a strict moral code—though it was a corrupted one. The failure of one of their jobs thanks to the Flash led to the Trickster being fired, but the failure and discord between his friends made Cold depressed. He was accosted by Dr. Elias, who offered him the chance to even the score with the Flash. This chance involved using the Genome Re-Coder to give them all powers. Unfortunately, the process went wrong, and though they were all given powers, his sister Lisa was rendered a ghostly projection while her body remained comatose. Her boyfriend Sam , though, was trapped forever in the Mirror World.
Now that the reformed Rogues had spurned Captain Cold, he decided to team up with the Flash. Though they were successful, Cold turned on him and came out the winner against both sides. Unfortunately, his success was short-lived, as the Gem Cities were about to be attacked by an army of Gorillas. [ 30 ]
Gorilla Warfare
Gorilla Grodd attacks Central City.
Shortly afterward, a gorilla army led by Grodd attacked Central City. The Rogues realized they would need help to defeat them, so Weather Wizard woke Flash up with a small rain. Knowing the danger Grodd represented, Flash agreed to a temporary alliance with the Rogues. As the Rogues fought the gorilla army, Flash chased after Grodd himself. [ 31 ]
Unfortunately, Grodd had supercharged himself with Speed Force energy, giving him an edge over Flash. As the two clashed, Grodd maintained the upper hand and shattered Barry's mask. Just as Grodd was about to impale him with a metal sign pole, Solovar , another gorilla, sacrificed his life to save Flash. [ 32 ]
Barry collapsed from exhaustion, and Patty (who had discovered his identity) took him to the house of his friend Manuel Lago's mother Malaya to recover. As he slept, Barry's mind watched every possible outcome his battle with Grodd could cause. Each outcome ended with Patty dead or seriously injured. Realizing that he cared too much for Patty to let that happen, Barry decided to surrender himself to Grodd. [ 33 ]
As he woke up, Barry explained his plan to Patty and they shared a final moment together. As Flash faced Grodd in Dr. Elias' lab, he used his powers to draw Grodd with him into the Speed Force, where they could end their conflict once and for all. Suddenly, a tank crashed next to them and Flash found Iris in the cockpit. [ 34 ]
To protect Iris from Grodd, Flash summoned a wooly mammoth to tackle Grodd, hurling him into the farthest reaches of the Speed Force. Flash took Iris and other people trapped inside the Speed Force back to Central City. Meanwhile, the Central City Police Department had already caused the gorillas to retreat, ending the invasion. Later, Barry met up with Iris and realized she had lost her memories of the Speed Force. [ 35 ]
Reverse
With the battle with Grodd over, Barry began noticing that all the people trapped within the Speed Force had acquired speed powers after their release. Later, a group of people called the Outlanders attempted to break the Trickster out of prison. Flash attempted to stop them, but his powers disappeared all of a sudden. [ 36 ] Arming himself with super-villain weapons, Barry attempted to stop the Outlanders without his powers. Fortunately, his powers returned and Flash was able to solve the situation without further incident. [ 37 ]
The Flash confronts Kid Flash.
Later, Barry moved in with Patty. He also returned to work in the police department, albeit as a basement archivist. Patty told Barry two of the Speed Force escapees had been murdered by a mysterious assailant . Flash went to investigate Floyd Gomez , another escapee, believing that he might know something about the murders. However, Gomez refused to cooperate and caused a train to derail, forcing Flash to let him go and save the train. Examining one of the victims' corpse, Barry found evidence that the killer might be Kid Flash . [ 38 ]
Flash chased Kid Flash all over the world and, after catching up to him tried to explain his situation. However, Kid Flash did not trust him and was later extracted by the Teen Titans . Flash was suspicious of Kid Flash's reluctance to talk about his past, but decided to let him go. [ 39 ]
Later, Flash created a suit for Iris to wear, knowing that she had also inherited powers from the Speed Force. The suit was designed to protect her from the Speed Force killer. Investigating Albert Lim's murder scene together, they asked Patty to examine the evidence they found. Remembering about the stolen monorail, Flash left Iris with Patty to question Dr. Elias, the monorail's creator, about his involvement. As soon as he arrived at Dr. Elias' lab, he found the Speed Force killer attacking him. [ 40 ]
The Speed Force Killer
Flash and the killer fought each other and the killer revealed his plans to take the Speed Force for himself and alter time. Iris intervened in the struggle and got hurt and the killer drained Flash of his Speed Force energy, revealing himself to be Daniel, Iris' brother. [ 41 ]
As Daniel traveled to the past, he attempted to kill his father when he and Iris were kids. Flash drained his Speed Force energy and took Daniel back to the present, where he was arrested for the murders he committed. As Flash ended his partnership with Dr. Elias, Barry reunited with Patty. After seeing what the Speed Force is capable of, Barry decided to reopen his father's case file and prove his innocence. [ 42 ]
History Lessons
In brightest day…
Barry was at a fancy restaurant with his friend Hal Jordan, the Green Lantern, who was about to go into space to lead the Lantern Corps . They were suddenly teleported to another planet, where Barry recalled their "first date." Flash and Green Lantern first met tracking down kidnapped children, when they discovered that the kids were being turned into gladiators for a tournament on War World. While Flash took the children back to their homes, unbeknownst to him, Green Lantern made a deal that the two of them would return and fight for the team that the children were representing. In the present, Barry and Hal win the tournament, but only one of them can fight the reigning champion for the title. Disconnected from the Speed Force, Barry used Hal's ring to win the fight.
Tar Pit and Rainbow Raider have robbed every store on a city block, drawing the Flash's attention. While in pursuit of them, he found a makeshift grave of skeletons. They're revealed to be old victims of a famous Keystone City serial killer . Barry believed he may have found his mom's murderer because the bodies died after the original killer was imprisoned, leading police to believe he had a partner. Flash discovered that the killer was actually a ghost that hopped from body to body, killing descendants of his old enemy, founder of the Gem Cities. The ghost can possess his own descendants indefinitely, so Darryl Frye alters police records to show that he is the most recent one when it's actually Barry. Deadman possesses the Flash to prevent the ghost from getting to him first, and together they trap the ghost in the House of Mystery.
Out of Time
Fight against the future.
Five years in his future, the Flash arrived at the scene of a car crash. Iris West was being rolled away on a stretcher, and there's a dead teenager who Barry seems to recognize. 20 years in the future, the Flash sported a blue costume and was talking about how much he'd missed. A newspaper clipping on his wall revealed that the teen killed in the car accident was Wally West, Iris' nephew.
Barry was sent to talk to a criminal called Mogul about a murder that happened using his weapon. He looked into the murder further and discovered that many Central City villains' gadgets and weapons were stolen from the evidence locker during the Crime Syndicate's reign . Flash eventually found the identity of the Mashup killer, Detective Seborn , and got him arrested.
20 years in the future, the Flash executed Gorilla Grodd and then started his journey back in time to kill himself. As he traveled back, he sat with Captain Cold when he died of cancer, and stopped all of the other Rogues from ruining their lives.
The Flash, at last, arrived at his last stop, 5 years in the future , on the day Wally died. He saved Wally and Iris but fatally injured the Barry from that time, who gave his power to Wally. Flash realized that he had to travel back another five years to completely mend the rift in the Speed Force that caused him to miss Wally's accident, and was about to sacrifice the Flash from the present to use his energy. Wally from the time of the accident traveled back and uses his own life force to heal the rift instead. This left Barry trapped in the Speed Force, with the Future Flash taking his place.
Savage World
While Barry was trapped in the Speed Force, he teamed up with others trapped there to escape. In the end, it was revealed that they wanted to kill Barry to escape, but Barry managed to merge with the Speed Force again to escape, with one other enemy , who had his spine broken. Barry attacked the Future Flash, who had been maiming criminals and ruining his public image. Barry retook his place as the Flash, but the Future Flash died, his last words saying that he never found their mother's killer, but found a lead. The lead is a name, "Thawne."
At the same time, Patty broke up with him due to the actions of his future counterpart because of her inability to reconcile the face of the man she loved with the killer he'd become.
Zoom
Barry goes to his dad in prison to reveal his lead, which leaves his father in outrage at the mention of the name, declaring to leave him alone and stay away from him. He later goes out to fight a criminal but sees what appears to be a yellow speedster zoom by.
Using his power to accelerate the speed of time, Flash battles Zoom.
He soon found that his father escaped from jail, and believed that he was taken as leverage. He tracks him down but lets him escape. Barry is soon alerted to a holdup, which was staged by Henry to get the flash's help, unaware that his son is the flash. He tells Flash that a man named Eobard Thawne killed his mother, and Barry agrees to help. As Barry goes to fight Zoom, he is approached by what appears to be Zoom's Acolytes . As Barry is ambushed by the Acolytes, Zoom then forces Henry Allen to create a Power Stealing Glove, and Zoom steals one of the acolytes' powers. As they find out they feel betrayed and attack Zoom. Feeling desperate, Zoom runs off with Barry's father.
Darkseid War
Flash becomes the Black Racer.
When the daughter of Darkseid Grail summoned the Anti-Monitor to fight against her father. During the battle between Darkseid and the Anti-Monitor, Darkseid summoned the Black Racer to destroy his enemy, but the Anti-Monitor stripped the Racer of Darkseid's grasp and merged it with Barry. After being bound to the Black Racer Barry was then unwillingly used the weapon to deliver a deathly blow against the Dark God, finally killing the despot of Apokolips . [ 43 ]
The Racer was quick to seize control of his new host's mind, but his efforts were almost negated by the Flash's will to resist his corrupting ideas, instigating a conflict among the two. [ 44 ]
The Black Racer was separated from the Flash by the powers of the child of Superwoman and Alexander Luthor , who possessed the same ability to absorb the super powers of others as his father. However, the Racer could not be absorbed, and instead was only separated from its host. As it needed to claim a life before it could disappear, it struck Power Ring ; however Jessica Cruz was spared and instead the life of Volthoom was claimed, and his ring destroyed . The Racer then vanished. [ 45 ]
DC Rebirth
The Return of Wally West
Kid Flash: Rebirth.
After the fallout of the recent death of Darkseid, a strange ripple of energy caused a tear in the Speed Force. The ripple caused by Darkseid's death allowed Wally West, who had been lost in the Speed Force for about ten years, to partially break through, but each attempt caused him to fall further into the Speed Force. After realizing not even Linda Park (his traditional "lightning rod") could remember him, Wally sank into desolation and chose to appear before Barry one last time to thank him for the life he had given him. Just before Wally disappeared, Barry suddenly remembered him and dragged him free of the Speed Force. Following a tearful reunion, Wally gave Barry his warning of the true source of the universal change and the dangers to come. [ 46 ] Although the two decide to keep Wally's return secret from Iris based on Wally's own experience with Linda, Barry encourages him to return to the Teen Titans, but also recommends that he don a new costume to reflect that he is the Flash rather than Kid Flash. While Wally considers his options, Barry visits Batman to discuss the new evidence of some outside force attacking them, musing on how personal this assault appears, but despite the potential danger, Batman and Barry agree to keep their investigation to themselves until they know what they are up against. [ 47 ]
Lightning Strikes Twice
While investigating a criminal group called the Black Hole , Barry was working with his new partner Detective August Heart. The group was responsible for the theft of a van that contained equipment from S.T.A.R. Labs when August spots one of the members of Black Hole spray painting the group's insignia on the former spot of his brother's murder. When the August tried to confront one of the criminals shot him. Before even Barry can even try to save him and before the bullet could hit him. Barry witnesses August being struck by lightning that created from the Speed Force. Barry then witnesses as August is able to stop the shooter using superhuman speed. After seeing him, Barry reveals himself to be the Flash, August creates his own costume and becomes Barry's partner. After they defeat the Black Hole group members, they soon witness more speedsters being born as an another Speed Force storm strikes more citizens. [ 48 ] [ 49 ]
Judge, jury, executioner…Godspeed.
While rounding and encountering more speedsters Barry learns about a S.T.A.R. Labs scientist named Meena Dhawan who was also super speed from the storm has created a Speed Force training center to help the new speedsters control their powers training the speedsters at S.T.A.R. Labs. After encountering her and Barry began to develop a relationship with each other. However, when Barry and Meena return after recruiting more speedsters, they find an injured August who tells them that a new speedster called Godspeed killed the speedster criminals and took their speed. While Barry and Meena decided to take a "day off," Godspeed arrives at the training center where he is confronted by Meena. One of the speedster recruits named Avery Ho escapes to get the Flash, Godspeed kills Meena and two of the recruits and takes their speed. [ 50 ]
When Godspeed kills Billy Parks , the main suspect in August's brother's murder, Barry realizes that August is Godspeed. Barry confronts him and August reveals that he is indeed Godspeed and has become a murderous vigilante. August reveals that when he was near the speedster criminals, he could feel the Speed Force within them connecting with him. He decided to take their powers from them, resulting in their deaths and August being injured. After realizing that it was possible to siphon another speedster's speed without killing them when he, Barry, Meena and two recruits took Dr. Carver's speed. August tried it again on Meena and the two recruits. However, it garnered the same results as the first time. With his increased speed, August reveals to Barry that he can create a double or himself and be at two places at once, a feat that is limited and takes a physical toll on him.
Barry used this to his advantage and escapes. August proceeded to interrogate the other Black Hole members about his brother's death but killed them all when he received no information. When the speedster recruits safely give their speed to Barry and Wally to stop Godspeed, August arrives and is able to take Avery's speed. Barry chases after Godspeed who reveals that he'll head to Iron Heights and do the one thing Barry couldn't kill his enemies, including Eobard Thawne. However, the new Kid Flash intervenes and helps the Flash in taking down Godspeed, who is later incarcerated in Iron Heights. [ 51 ] [ 52 ] [ 53 ]
Speed of Darkness
The tale of two Wallys.
One day, at Iris' work, Barry discovered she had been getting mysterious gifts lately. After hearing about an accident on the Keystone Bridge, he immediately ran there. Him and Kid Flash are helping evacuate the bridge when Wally West showed up. When two Wallys touch hands, something happened to the Speed Force and messed with Barry, making him rage. In this state, he tells Kid Flash that Daniel West is actually his father, not uncle. He also yells at Wally, saying that he can't replace him as the Flash. Soon both Wallys succeed in saving Barry. However Kid Flash gets mad at him for keeping the secret he just revealed. Another day, Barry and Wally I meet at hot-dogs to talk. Barry realizes that it was him who was sending Iris the flowers. Barry offers Wally to tell Iris about him and his origins, but Wally declines, saying that they can't do this until they find who's behind the missing years. [ 54 ] While Barry is jogging with Iris in the park, he's thinking about the "mysterious force" controlling them. Suddenly, a new villain called Papercut attacks. Barry wants to intervene, but he can't, since Iris is with him. Luckily Kid Flash shows up, though he is distracted by Iris. When situation gets worse, Barry says he's "going to get the police" and then shows up again as the Flash, defeating Papercut easily. Soon after Barry finds Wally to talk about his activity on his own and alongside Teen Titans. However Wally gets mad at him for talking about trust while not revealing his secret identity to him. [ 55 ]
Later that day Barry visited Iris to apologize and talk with Wally about him skipping school. They enter Wally's room only to find out he's not there. Iris tells Barry to go home, however as he knows she's going to look for the Flash, he changes and meets her again in his alter-ego. Iris asks him if he knows where Wally is and Flash says how he told Wally, that he won't train him until he proves he's worth his trust. They get into an argument, when suddenly Shade appears out of his shadow, saying that Kid Flash is lost in the darkness. Iris immediately goes inside Shade and Flash follows. He finds himself in Shadowlands without Iris in sight. When shadows attack him, he is saved by Kid Flash. After Shade appears in his human form and explains how shadows stopped listening to him and took his girlfriend, Hope O'Dare , Flash offers help. When shadows start attacking the three, Flash tells to find Iris and Hope, but Shade says he has already found them and that they became queens of the Shadowlands. [ 56 ] Eventually Flash and Kid Flash defeat the shadows together. After Flash and Kid Flash arrive at the Tower of Darkness, they create a light explosion that brings them all, including Iris and Hope, back to Central City. Then, after a long night, Flash makes up with Kid Flash. Later this day Barry visits Iris in civilian and asks her out for a date. [ 57 ]
On Christmas Eve Barry went out with Iris. She gave their phones to the waitress, so nothing work related would interrupt them. While the date didn't go that well, they did share a nice moment at Iris' place thanks to hot chocolate prepared by Wally. [ 58 ]
Rogues Reloaded
The Flash fights Captain Cold.
The Rogues want to pull a big last robbery and then retire and never come back to Central City. They have planned this a long time so that it would be idiot-proof that they get away. When Barry starts investigating their disappearance they trick him into leaving Central City. He thinks that they want to rob a museum outside from Central City. While Barry isn't in town they rob and destroy almost all of Central City. When Barry returns he finds Heatwave and tricks him into thinking that he defeated him. The Flash then attacks the Rogues. However Captain Cold uses a new weapon he created which counters the Speed Force. After a long drawn fight Barry comes out as the winner and puts the Rogues in Iron Heights.
The Button
The Flash examines the Comedian's button.
While fighting off a group of Samuroids , Barry received a call from Batman, informing him that the radiation from the mysterious button that appeared in the Batcave after the return of Wally West, had spiked and torn a hole in the Speed Force. Barry tells Bruce he will meet him at the cave within a minute. When he arrives he finds Bruce beaten to a pulp lying next to the remains of a dead Reverse-Flash. [ 59 ]
The Flash looked over Reverse-Flash's corpse and finds that his specific Speed Force signature is all over Thawne, making Barry question if he kills Thawne in the future. Barry talked with Batman, who reveals he saw his father in a vision. Barry then tells Bruce he had also had a vision, but of the Helmet of Mercury instead, and said it had made him feel hopeful. Barry then heads to the Justice League Watchtower , and finds the Cosmic Treadmill, and prepares to use it to track the radiation from the button, but Batman stops him, and forces Barry to bring him along. While traveling throughout the time-stream, they see visions from the pre-Flashpoint universe, and land in the Batcave from the Flashpoint timeline, confronting the Flashpoint Batman, Thomas Wayne. Thomas attacks Barry, not believing it is actually Bruce, who is dead in the Flashpoint timeline, but Barry manages to convince Thomas that they are real. Barry is confused at how the Flashpoint timeline still exists and realizes that someone had kept the Flashpoint timeline in place when it should have been reverted from existence after Barry had originally left it. Shortly after, the three are attacked by Amazons and Atlantean soldiers. Thomas and Bruce hold them off while Barry rebuilds the treadmill so they can leave.
After the treadmill is fixed, Barry realizes that the Flashpoint world is starting to become erased from existence. Barry and Bruce board the treadmill, asking Thomas to come with them, although Thomas refuses. Shortly after, Barry and Bruce leave and Thomas is erased from existence, along with the Flashpoint timeline.
After Barry and Bruce begin traveling throughout the timestream once more, they are confronted by the Reverse-Flash, before he was killed, claiming he knows who holds the true power of the button and is going to face them. [ 60 ]
He attempted to warn Thawne about his future death, but Thawne ignored him and went anyway.
After finally getting his attention, Jay Garrick was able to break through and use his speed to get Barry, Bruce, and himself out of the timestream and back on Earth.
After getting back on Earth, Jay began slowly fading back into the Speed Force. He introduced himself to Barry, who had no idea who he was, trying to get him to remember him, as he did with Wally West. Jay told Barry that someone took everything from him and he didn't know why. Just before fully fading back into the Speed Force, Barry grabbed Jay's arm and attempted to save him from fading away, although just as he grabbed him, Jay was teleported away by a blinding blue light. [ 61 ]
The Color of Fear
Barry drops off Thawne's corpse at the Flash Museum , but is convinced he is not dead. During his birthday party, Multiplex attacks after a girl he was stalking. With help from Hal, Barry defeated Multiplex. At Iris' house, he finds that he was right about Eobard being alive. He finds he kidnapped Iris, took her to the 25th Century and severely injured Wally and left him for dead. After dropping Wally off at S.T.A.R. Labs, he went after Eobard.
Running Scared
Defeated by Reverse-Flash; abandoned by Iris West
Barry travels to the 25th Century and goes to the Flash Museum. He is then savagely assaulted by Reverse-Flash. He is then savagely beaten and unmasked by Eobard in front of Iris.
Eobard then takes him and Iris to a future where their children are villains. Eobard then offers if Barry would abandon his future with Iris, and go into a place where he will never hurt anyone again, Barry agrees, on the condition that Iris West is returned safely into the 21st Century . Eobard lies to him and says he has his word, and leads the Flash into the Negative Speed Force. He leaves Barry there, telling him that Iris will have no future. Thawne later taunts Iris, asking her to discuss her thoughts, about the future she will never have. Iris ignores him, threatening him with a Speed Force weapon. As soon as Thawne responds to her threat, Barry strikes him with extreme force, telling Thawne that he will kill him.
As Barry became the Negative Flash, he had been concentrated with anger and roughly attacks Thawne. Iris questions his motives, but he tells her to get out of the ruckus with him and the Reverse-Flash and continues his fight with Eobard Thawne. While they fight, Thawne attempts to persuade Barry by stating how they are friends and states that they can be partners as he should ditch the loser sidekicks.
Barry angrily yells to his face, that they are not friends, and promptly pushing him back in time and striking Thawne with tremendous force. As they keep fighting, Thawne remarks that he did not always appreciate violence, and the best gift he received is the idea of Barry blaming himself. As Barry gains the upper hand, he smashes Thawne into a part of the Flash Museum back into the future and tears his speed out from his body.
As Thawne taunts Barry about how he will be back again and again after losing his speed, while stating that he will eventually gain it back, Iris kills Thawne with the Black Hole's Speed Force weapon, and she asks Barry if he could take her home which he readily accepts. Meanwhile, in the 21st Century, Iris tells Barry to go away, while she waits for Wally to recover with him, and Barry goes back to his crime lab, sitting down ashamed at his desk.
Negative
Empowered by the Negative Speed Force.
As Flash returned to Central City with its regular criminals, he fought the Road Reapers , who's M.O. was to knock off armored cars while in transit. As he fought the Road Reapers, the bullets turned to ash because of the Flash's negative Speed Force Aura before they can make contact. Flash's negative Speed Force aura is unpredictable compared to his regular Speed Force aura at this point. so while he proceeds to rescue the Central City police from the Road Reapers gunshots, he caused their armored truck to explode via his lightning. His powers have become explosive and overkill, due to the infection he received from the Negative Speed Force corrupting his positive Speed Force. At that time the Road Reapers proceeded to get away. He discovered he feels exhausted after using any type of speed due to the unpredictable and "negative" effects of the Negative Speed Force.
Later, the Flash proceeded to defeat the biker gang and destroyed their bikes with his lightning from his Negative Speed Force aura, he discovered that the bikers were not running from him, but they were running from Shrapnel , who killed them and called the Flash his accomplice. Flash attempted to project lightning bolts at Shrapnel, but Shrapnel's metallic regenerative abilities proved to persevere against the limited amount of lightning the Flash projected at him. Flash continued to avoid his punches, but eventually let Shrapnel beat him up as he blamed himself for the deaths of the Road Reapers. Eventually, Shrapnel's whole body exploded enough to contain it due to the Flash's Negative Speed Force Aura building up to explode.
Later, the team at CCPD discovered stolen evidence and blood samples from the place. it was revealed that Ramsey Rosso works in the Morn and his job associated with taking precaution and care on dead bodies is related to the stolen blood samples. When Barry went down to the place where the dead bodies were kept, he attempted to help the people who were unconscious, as he passed out from what he thought was exhaustion, but really from Ramsey.
Fight with Bloodwork.
After Barry got into an argument with David Singh and CCPD, he and Kristen proceeded to discuss the evidence, as he calmed down. Eventually, he discovered based on the inquiry in their conversation that someone must be working down in the morgue in order to steal and tamper with the evidence and blood samples. As Barry left to become the Flash, even though it was overkill, he proceeded to stop Ramsey, but was forced to bend his knees down on the floor based on the powers Ramsey used to control his blood, through the use side effects of experimenting with the properties of blood. Ramsey then stated he was going to kill the Flash and the CCPD, but the Flash yelled no and as he did that his powers reacted to his emotions in such a way that a huge bolt of lightning came from his body and struck Ramsey with tremendous force, that he plummeted out of his room, crashed through a wall several yards into the air, and landed with an extraordinary level of invulnerability. With such powers, Flash only then realized that he did not kill Ramsey, and Ramsey proceeded in an intense battle with the Flash, to face him as the blood generating and controlling macabre named Bloodwork. [ 62 ]
Return to Normal & Dhawan's Betrayal
When Meena Dhawan suddenly returned she betrayed him and Kid Flash, by working with Black Hole. She extracted the Negative Speed Force from him to get it herself. Apparently she and Black Hole wanted to study the Negative Speed Force. It turned out that the Negative Speed Force slowly tears you apart if you are additionally connected with the Speed Force, but that didn't happen to Barry Allen as Meena Dhawan, who goes by the moniker Negative Flash now, extracted the Negative Speed Force from him. [ 63 ]
Dark Nights: Metal
To Barry's horror, Central city is in the middle Speed Force storm, courtesy of the Red Death . He fights the Red Death and is nearly killed before Cyborg saves him.
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Cold Days in Hell
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Perfect Storm
Barry Allen and Wally West fighting in Central City.
Gorilla Grodd returns with an army consisting of the forces of Black Hole, Meena Dhawan and Raijin . He slows Central City to a snail's pace and steals Barry's powers. In his desperation Barry frees Godspeed from Iron Heights prison. [ 64 ] After a while of experiencing and testing, Barry regains his power, but accidentally gives Grodd the ability to control his fellow Speedsters. After a while of the other Speedsters blaming Barry for bad events, that happened in the past, Barry manages to get through to them and fight them. While the other Speedsters fight negative Flash, Raijin and Grodd's Black Hole army, Barry fights Grodd. He uses the telepathic connection, which Grodd established between him and Barry, to trick Grodd into thinking he killed Barry and then he catches him of guard. Suddenly a few Gorillas from Gorilla City appear and take Grodd as a prisoner with them. [ 65 ]
Flash War
The Flashes later help clean Central City after the storm, Barry then visited Meena in Iron Heights to help her get released by talking to the court about how Grodd was controlling her but she refused. Barry and Iris West go to his crime lab where he reintroduces Iris to Wally West, Iris quickly remembers her nephew and all three share a moment together. [ 66 ] Wally experiments a surge of old memories coming back to him, Barry and Iris take him to Cyborg and his father so they can check on him, when Wally doesn't want more tests Barry goes to the Batcave for answers but finds that Bruce isn't there. Barry later finds Wally on a place getting memories from the Flash Museum and the two run together to get their minds clear. [ 67 ]
The two Flashes fight for the fate of the Speed Force.
While Iris, Barry, Wally, and Wallace are in the garage, the Renegades arrive and demand the arrest of Iris West for killing Eobard Thawne. Barry tries to defuse the situation but Wally takes Iris and runs while the Flashes fight the Renegades, when Wally has a temporal seizure they all make a deal with the Renegades to help Wally if they come with Iris to the 25th Century. They arrive to the Temporal Courts, but during travel, Wally gets separated from the rest. [ 68 ] Wally found Hunter Zolomon and regained the memories of his children: Irey and Jai. Hunter tells him others are trapped in the Speed Force and the only way to free them is to break it to which Wally agrees despite Barry's disapproval. When Wally runs off Barry follows him and stops him from breaking the Speed Force, believing that Hunter was lying. [ 69 ]
Barry and Wally race across the world, with Wally still believing in Hunter's words as Barry is helpless to dissuade him, the natural forces also start to reek havoc. The Justice League later arrived and tried to stop the two speedsters, but they all failed. The two run and cause a massive disruption in the Speed Force before finally stopping. They meet up with the Justice League as they're soon taken out by Zoom who explains that he lied to Wally to get them both to break the force barrier. He shows the brand new Strength Force and Sage Force powers he acquired, puts on Barry's old Flash suit, and claims to be "the Flash." [ 70 ] Barry and Wally follow Hunter into hypertime and stop him before he can alter reality, but he escapes before they can catch him. After the two speedsters fought Zolomon, the Speed Force loses all its temporal energy, making it impossible for any speedster to time travel. Barry finds Wally on Mount Hood in Oregon ; the two have a brief argument and Wally leaves. [ 71 ] Two days later, Wally meets up with Barry and Iris outside of Central City and later sought help in Sanctuary , a rehabilitation center for both superheroes and reformed villains. One week later, Barry decides to create the Flash Museum. [ 72 ]
Force Quest
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Justice/Doom War
War on multiple fronts
During the fight against the Legion of Doom to take the power of the mysterious Totality , Barry, together with Wonder Woman and Aquaman , went on a mission inside the Legion' underwater base. There, they were ambushed by Gorilla Grodd, who thanks to his telepathic powers made Wonder Woman and Aquaman fight each other, so that he could focus on Barry. Grodd, empowered by the Still Force , an opposite to the Speed Force, was able to slow Barry down and use his own energy to free the black sun Umbrax .
As Martian Manhunter and John Stewart were able to turn the whole planet into a White Lantern , Flash was able to harness the Still Force and use it to close the protective membrane separating their Multiverse from Umbrax, saving the Earth.
Later, he was one of the few Leaguers able to fight during the attack of the Triumvirate of Sea Gods , who released a toxin in the water that would transform anyone into a sea monster. Flash was contaminated, but was able to contain the metamorphosis with the Speed Force. He was then cured once the enemy was defeated.
Flash participated in the League's expedition in the Sixth Dimension . Once they were back on Earth, they realized Lex Luthor already turned the Multiverse into a servant of Doom, and was ready to complete the awakening of Perpetua . So, Flash and John Stewart took part on a mission in the past, in the year 1941, to retrieve a shard of the Totality which was lost in time. There, they met the Justice Society of America and Barry, meeting Jason Garrick, felt a strange sensation in his mind and in the Speed Force, even if no one in the present remembered the JSA. Together with their new comrades, Barry and John fought at Pearl Harbor and, thanks also to the return of Aquaman, were able to retrieve the shard of Totality and bring it to the present.
Still, Lex and Perpetua were able to win, even with the League building the Justice Totality. As Perpetua tried to kill all the core members of the League, Barry with the others was saved by the Quintessence , and transported to the Moon. There, they were sent on a journey through time to gather the Anti-Crisis energy, in a last effort to defeat Perpetua, but were unable to win. Coming back to Earth they found out Perpetua chose a new right hand in the Batman who Laughs , and that the evil Batman transformed their planet in his Metalverse.
Heroes in Crisis
While battling Samuroids, Booster Gold tells him about the massacre at Sanctuary and the death of Wally West. This causes Barry to run all the way to the Sanctuary to have a look. When he comes back to confront Booster, he punches him due to him being responsible of the apparent death of his nephew. [ 73 ] Barry later desperately goes inside the Speed Force to look for Wally, hoping that he finds him there, but instead he finds Godspeed, who punches him in the face. August then leaves but Barry follows him while asking if he knows what happened to Wally, they get out of the Speed Force and Godpeed says that the future needs saving from his mistake, Barry follows him to Iron Heights where he steal some speed from Meena and attacks both Wallace and Avery. Flash later beats up August before he leaves saying that he was just trying to warn him about something , Barry then goes and tells Iris about Wally's death. [ 74 ]
Death of the Speed Force
Following the news about Wally, Iris had left to work on a force quest alone. Barry returned to Iron Heights only to find that Trickster had mind-controlled everyone to be "happy." After Barry went to rescue Commander Cold who was captured by Trickster, they managed to foil Trickster's plan by reverting all the society to normal behavior, but not before Trickster blew up the Iron Heights building, causing all the CCPD to move back to the main headquarter. [ 75 ]
Sometimes after this, Barry assigned Avery and Wallace to his new Speed Lab in the Flash Museum while reamending their relationship. After learning the Black Flash had come to kill the Speed Force users. Barry and Commander Cold had managed to secure Fuerza and Steadfast from danger, but not before Black Flash had claimed Psych . [ 76 ]
Rogues' Reign
After Captain Cold and his Rogues had overtaken Central City into a snow globe, Barry was locked inside the Ice Heights prison along with Trickster. The Flash struggled to free himself from the chain due to the power inhibitor collar chained which depowered his connection with the Speed Force. After discovering Captain Cold had murdered Commander Cold, Golden Glider phased in to break out the speedster and told him that his brother didn't tell her something deep as they escape from Central City. She explained time and reality are broken and removing the collar could cause some unstable molecule Speed Force explosion. [ 77 ]
In order to prevent the Speed Force lose control, Barry, Wallace and Avery needed to wear the collar while following Glider on their journey to aid those remaining rogues. Golden Glider explained the true plans from his brother and how they needed the mirror piece to fix the broken parts. After Weather Wizard had destroyed all collars, Barry was trying to control his speed while Avery and Wallace wore back the collars.
Learning the remaining mirror pieces were kept from Mirror Master, they decided to head back to Central City since he lived around at S.T.A.R. Labs. But the plan failed as Mirror Master threw the Flashes and the rogues into the mirror dimension that leads to King Cold and his troops. Glider explained to his brother about the deal with Lex but not the doom sigil that can end the world, resulting in Cold went berserk as he froze everyone on his path except the Flash. [ 78 ] They began to brawl fight each other with the Flash trying to free the backup from the ice. After broke the Mirror Dimension which send back to normal in Central City, the Flash ended the fight by almost beating King Cold to death and decided to turn in to the police officer. [ 79 ]
After arriving in Arkham Asylum , Pied Pier was there to help the three speedsters by channeling a machine that stabilized the molecules of the Speed Force. While they are in process, Golden Glider secretly broke his brother out from the Asylum and escaped before the Flash got his chance to chase after them. After stabilized Barry's Speed Force, he and Iris receive a call from the future Flash, warning them about the Paradox. [ 80 ]
The Flash Ages
Back at his crime lab, Barry is intercepted by Godspeed, who warned him to stop looking for Paradox, but Barry suited up and chased after August only to be ambushed by Paradox himself, who tells him that the age of the Flash must end. Paradox told August to kill The Flash in order to prove that he can know what happened to his brother. [ 81 ] This was all a fluke though, as August was a double agent and betrayed Paradox in order to protect Barry, but he was ultimately beaten while Barry tried to fight Paradox to no avail. [ 82 ] After learning from Iris that the only one that could stop Paradox was the Reverse-Flash and escaping a realm beyond the multiverse where Paradox originally was at, Barry went looking for Eobard. [ 83 ]
Flash had to team up with Eobard in order to stop Paradox.
Barry went to back to the night his mother night but had to wait for the Reverse-Flash to be done so he could ask for his help on how to stop Paradox, once Eobard realized he was there the two fought until the villain learns of Paradox's escape and offers him to team up, realizing that it's the only way, Barry reluctantly accepts. [ 84 ] The two rivals travel to the future and get Eobard's Lightning Rod back from the Flash Museum, they then travel to the past only for Eobard to try and kill Paradox before he even gets his powers, as in this time Paradox was an innocent father, Barry tried to stop Eobard and the two fought once again.
The two were then encountered by Paradox who ended up killing his past self, Eobard tried to stop him but his Lightning Rod didn't work this time and Paradox unleashed all his energy in order to erase the time stream. [ 85 ] During the time storm, Barry along Godspeed keep Paradox busy while Eobard goes and saves Chris before he becomes Paradox without creating any more time alterations. After erasing Paradox, the three speedsters return to the present only for Eobard to kill August while revealing that he was the one who killed his brother before leaving. [ 86 ]
The Finish Line
Flash against the Legion of Zoom
The Flash would then help both Kid Flash and Avery Ho stop Tar Pit before telling them that Godspeed was killed by Eobard Thawne. Barry tells them that it's better if he deals with Thawne alone, but when the two young speedster follow him to the Speed Lab it's revealed that he just doesn't want them to see how he needs to kill Eobard. [ 87 ] Just when Barry started to stop worrying about Eobard's next move, Central City is attacked by a The Legion of Zoom , a supervillain team formed by Thawne who took some of his rogues from different points in time. [ 88 ]
Barry sent Iris, Wallace and Avery away while he deals with Eobard and his team, he also calls his father in order to make sure he went to a safe house, Barry goes to his childhood home believing he'll find the Legion there, but instead he's attacked by Dawn and Don, his kids from a terrible future. He's then attacked by the rest of the Legion and is holded by his kids while Eobard takes over his body to assume the title of the Flash, Barry wakes up in the Speed Force where he's attacked by demonic versions of Max Mercury and Jesse Quick . [ 89 ] The two speedsters help Barry not get lost in the Speed Force by fighting back, Barry remembers both of them as they try to help him push out into the Speed Force with his mind. Barry manages to regain control of his body [ 90 ]
Barry and Thawne have their final showdown.
After briefly encountering Inertia , Barry sticks up to all his memories and what makes him the Flash in order to regain control of his body, Barry also decides to take both Max and Jesse with him so all three of them go back to the real world and encounter the rest of the Flash Family to fight the Legion. [ 91 ] During the fight, a lot of other speedsters join in to fight the Legion while Eobard reveals to Barry that he was behind a lot of their recent tragedies thanks to the hypnotic frequency he has from to the Negative Speed Force, the two are then intercepted by Wally who tells Barry to find him before disappearing, this made Barry follow Eobard through the Time Stream claiming that he will kill him. [ 92 ]
In reality, Barry decides not only to forgive Eobard for everything he had done, but decides to alter time so that Eobard never became the Reverse-Flash, this works because during an attack he let some his Speed Force into Eobard's body, preventing him from becoming a living paradox and giving Thawne a peaceful life. Barry then returns to the present while seeing that everything is set back to normal, including the Legion of Zoom and his future children. [ 93 ] With his life free from Thawne, Flash went back to his hero duties and stopped the Trickster, [ 94 ] he later faced off with Doctor Alchemy . [ 95 ]
Death Metal
Barry attempted to go back in time to undo the rise of Perpetua and the Batman Who Laughs, but failed, draining his increasingly connection to the Speed Force even further. He later went to the Valhalla Cemetery where he reunited with Jay Garrick and Wally West who had been empowered by the Mobius Chair . [ 96 ] Despite being sealed bunker protected by science and magic, the Robin King and the Batman Who Laughs, now a godlike being calling himself the Darkest Knight, were able to breach their defenses while Wonder Woman and other heroes enacted a plan to channel the Crisis energy being fed to Perpetua into Wally so he could remake the Multiverse. Barry and the other Flashes fled through a portal created by Doctor Fate with the Darkest Knight in hot pursuit. [ 97 ]
Barry and the Flashes escape the Darkest Knight.
The Flashes were joined by Kid Flash. As the Speed Force had been greatly diminished and was dwindling by the second they just barely managed to stay ahead of the Darkest Knight, who later summoned a horde of Dark Flashes to chase them down. This Dark Flashes were able to match them in speed and accelerated the burnout of the Speed Force. As they closed in, Wally used Johnny Quick's Speed Formula to briefly stop time so they could stop outside of the Flash Museum. Barry criticized this as it strained the Speed Force even further. Wally wanted to run back into and through the horde to go after the Mobius Chair, while Barry wanted to continue to run forward. Wally ran into the museum, declaring that if Barry wouldn't come with him he would go alone. Barry followed him into the museum and the two were able to talk about their conflict as Wally told him how he still felt like he was in Barry's shadow despite everything he had achieved and worked for while Barry was gone, while Barry admitted that because he wasn't there to see Wally grow up, he still thought of him as his sidekick and found it difficult to treat him as the man and hero he had become. Barry agreed to follow Wally's plan and they rejoined the others.
At the instant time resumed, the four ran into the horde, smashing through their line and racing towards the Chair. Jay and Wallace couldn't keep up and fell back to slow the Dark Flashes down, but the Darkest Knight was still gaining on Barry and Wally. Barry transferred the last of his speed to Wally to give him the boost he needed and Wally pushed himself as hard as he could, making Wally reach the Chair an instant before the Dark Flashes could catch him and disappeared with it into the Speed Force. Barry was sent to the Speed Force too along with the rest of the Flash Family, he later followed Wally as he lead the charge to deliver the Chair to Wonder Woman so that she could execute her plan. [ 98 ] After Wonder Woman defeated the Darkest Knight the multiverse was remade into an Omniverse by The Hands. Barry took Wally to meet the Totality on their space station, and informed him of the new structure of the multiverse. [ 99 ]
Infinite Frontier
Infinite Mystery
Manipulated by the Psycho-Pirate
Though Iris and Barry's marriage had been restored to history and they could both now clearly remember it, they mutually considered it to no longer in effect, both planning on proposing to the other.
After the Darkest Knight, Barry was offered a place on Justice Incarnate in order to explore the new multiverse and map it. He accepted this offer, but before making it official he contacted Wally, choosing him to be the main Flash on Earth once again. [ 100 ]
Barry explored much of the known Multiverse, but eager to research for its changes, he tried to use his super speed to travel to the new reality Earth Omega . Barry raced across the known 52 realities and eventually managed to jump to Earth Omega. There, he found the dead bodies of the Quintessence; before he could investigate, he was attacked by the Psycho-Pirate , who had been granted new powers by Darkseid. Psycho-Pirate told Barry that another crisis is coming, and Barry will help them find the person Darkseid needs. [ 101 ]
Psycho-Pirate placed Barry in a giant turbine and gave him the illusion that he was racing to save the Multiverse. In reality, the turbine was generating energy Darkseid would use to open the cracks in the Multiverse and access the power beyond. [ 102 ] Barry was freed from the turbine by President Superman and subsequently disappeared. He awoke in the ruins of Multiverse-2 , where he was met by Pariah , who claimed he had found a better way than the constant cycles of worlds being destroyed and rebooted. He disintegrated Barry and then re-materialized him in Earth-Flash.1 , a pocket dimension where he would be happy, forever. [ 103 ]
Justice League Incarnate came to Earth-Flash.1 to try to rescue him, but Barry did not recognize them, and ran away when they tried to take him. Doctor Multiverse realized that Earth-Flash.1 was a construct created by the Great Darkness and the team fled, leaving Barry behind. [ 104 ]
Dark Crisis
Justice League Incarnate enlisted the Justice League of Earth 0 to help them stop the Great Darkness, and told them what had happened to Barry. The two Leagues managed to prevent the Darkness crossing over, but were seemingly all killed except for Black Adam , who escaped back to Earth 0. [ 105 ] Black Adam told the heroes of Earth 0 everything that had happened, and so Wally gathered the Flash Family to search the Omniverse for Barry. [ 106 ] Mister Terrific narrowed his possible location down to three alternate universe so the Flash Family split up to find him. [ 107 ]
Wally, Linda Park-West, and Kid Flash found him on Earth-Flash.1. However, when Wally attempted to speak to him, Barry saw him as the Reverse-Flash and attacked him. [ 108 ] As Wally would not fight back, Barry almost killed him until Linda stopped him. Linda was able to help Barry break the illusion, and when Wally told him what had happened to the League, Barry realized that his teammates were not dead but were trapped in false paradise worlds like him. Barry told the others to return to Earth 0 and protect it, while he went off to look for the imprisoned Justice League. [ 109 ]
One-Minute War
Barry during the war against the Fraction
While on a dinner with Iris, the two discussed their future together, with Iris even to proposing to him, but they were interrupted when Barry felt that everyone that wasn't a speedster froze in time just as a mysterious spire arrived on Earth. The spire belonged to the Fraction , an interdimensional empire that used the Speed Force to plunder various worlds, and when touching the ground created a massive wave from which Barry tried to save Iris but it was too late, as she was hit by the wave and died on his arms. [ 110 ] Barry was eventually found by Wally who helped him escape the flyers of the Fraction. The two then arrived at the West House, reuniting with the rest of the Flash Family as Barry carried Iris' body. [ 111 ]
After some mourning, Barry reunited with the Flash Family and suggested that if they could get one of the Fraction's vehicles they may be able to find a countermeasure and "unfreeze" the world. The speedsters also relocated to Mister Terrific's personal lab at Terrifictech to use as a new refuge, Kid Flash and Impulse then returned with a stolen vehicle from the Fraction, which contained various other heroes that were kept as prisoners. [ 112 ]
Barry and Iris later went to the Flash Museum and used the Cosmic Treadmill to travel into the 30th Century and visit their children Don and Dawn. They had many adventures with the Tornado Twins before tearfully returning to the present. [ 113 ]
Dawn of DC
Knight Terrors
Barry is haunted by his nightmares
Beast World
Barry battles Beast Boy's Starro spores
Strange Attractor
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Absolute Power
Barry & every single hero are powerless
All In
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Speed Force Conduit : After Barry was struck by a bolt of lightning and doused with chemicals, he gained a connection to the Speed Force—a mysterious cosmic force that pushes time and space itself forward. [ 114 ] [ 115 ] As it does this, the Speed Force creates excess energy that builds up and needs to be released. Barry, and the other speedsters connected to the Speed Force, act effectively as its release valve. When Barry uses his powers, he taps into that built up energy and expends it. [ 25 ] After teaching himself, [ 116 ] along with being trained by Fuerza, [ 117 ] [ 118 ] his future self, [ 119 ] [ 120 ] and Max Mercury; [ 121 ] [ 122 ] Barry learned a greater and more profound understanding of his powers, helping him gain mastery over them. Grodd has admitted that Barry is a master of the science of the Speed Force. [ 123 ] [ 124 ] Barry has stated that he has the potential to evolve when it comes to the terms of his speed and powers. [ 30 ] He later lost his powers when he was caught at ground zero of an exploding Transmatter Portal . [ 125 ] Superhuman Speed : Barry is capable of moving at incredible superhuman speeds. He is far faster than Superman and Supergirl [ 126 ] [ 127 ] and almost as fast as Wally West. Barry can move far beyond lightspeed without any effort, and was even able to move when time was frozen. [ 128 ] [ 57 ] [ 129 ] When he was asleep, Barry moved so fast none of the Flash Family members could catch him, even giving Wally West trouble keeping up with him. [ 130 ] However, Barry is always so immersed in the science of the Speed Force that he doesn't cut loose and simply enjoy his speed, which leaves him a bit slower than Wally West, who is the fastest being in the multiverse. [ 131 ] Superhuman Reflexes : Barry's reaction time is augmented to superhuman levels. His great reflexes have allowed him to perform feats such as dodging lightning. [ 27 ] His body sends pain messages to his brain at such a velocity that the femtosecond he feels something, he will react. [ 21 ] Superhuman Stamina : Barry's body can handle the stress of moving at superhuman speeds for long periods of time without out getting tired or weak. [ 18 ] After being pricked by one of Poison Ivy's toxic thorns, he ran at supersonic speed for more than a day, just to keep the toxin from metabolizing into his bloodstream. Even after running in circles for days non-stop, to keep the toxin from taking over; Barry still had enough stamina to run back and rescue Batman. [ 132 ] Barry can maintain a state of vibrating his molecules for hours on end, even without gravity, before passing out. [ 133 ] Superhuman Agility : Barry's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily maneuver and leap far distances while moving at superhuman speed. [ 18 ] [ 134 ] [ 135 ] Superhuman Strength : The Flash can use his speed to boost his natural strength. [ 136 ] The faster the Flash accelerates towards lightspeed, the more his mass increases, greatly enhancing the force behind his punches. By moving at just under the speed of light, Barry can perform a "near-infinite mass" punch, which he describes as the mightiest punch in the multiverse. However, he rarely does this, as it can easily deform space-time itself, if he holds it for more than an instant. When Barry used this ability on the Anti-Monitor, the force of Barry's punch was strong enough to knock the Anti-Monitor through multiple realities and nearly defeat him. [ 137 ] Barry can generate enough force through his speed to easily smash through metal walls. [ 138 ] Barry was strong enough to hurl Wally West across a street and into a building, [ 139 ] as well as pull a van carrying ten people in it. [ 140 ] He also carried a large statue from Central City all the way back to Corto Maltese , [ 141 ] and easily snapped Captain Boomerang's metal boomerangs and break apart Darwin Elias' energy gun, with his bare hands. [ 142 ] [ 143 ] Speed Force Aura : The Flash's body is surrounded by a Speed Force Aura, or "friction cushion" - a bubble of space-time accelerated to the same velocity as Barry. [ 144 ] This aura allows Barry to breathe and hear sounds while moving at immense speeds, as well as protects him and anyone who he is running with from the rigorous effects of using his speed, including friction, airborne particulate matter, kinetic impacts, G-Force and the like. [ 145 ] [ 114 ] [ 126 ] Barry can also sync his aura with anyone he chooses, giving him the ability to pull them alongside him with a thought. [ 146 ] He is also capable of using his aura to restrain enemies that are in his aura's vicinity, however this takes immense focus. [ 147 ] By running around enemies, Barry can trap them in a force-field that he creates by compressing his aura. [ 148 ] Superhuman Durability : Thanks to his protective Speed Force aura, Barry is capable of resisting tremendous kinetic impact forces that could easily crush or kill a human, without suffering any serious external or internal injuries. He was able to hit Gorilla Grodd with enough to force to shatter his own armor, and suffered no injury. [ 32 ] Energy Resistance : Barry's Speed Force aura also makes him highly resistant to most energy based attacks, especially electrical attacks. Accelerated Healing : Barry can heal much faster than any regular human, due to his Speed Force Aura accelerating space-time around him, closing his wounds almost instantly. His arm healed within minutes of it being crushed. He was also able to quickly heal from the "bone crushing pressure" and "antagonizing trauma" of being 2,000 feet below the ocean, which dealt extreme damage to his body. [ 149 ] Aerokinesis : By rotating his arms at super speed or running in a circular motion, Barry can create strong vortexes of wind. [ 19 ] [ 126 ] [ 150 ] [ 151 ] He has also used the slipstream of airflow created by his speed to draft millions of gallons of water behind him to keep a small village from flooding, [ 27 ] and pull two 600-ton barges behind him. [ 22 ] He even managed to save a train from jumping off the tracks by creating a slipstream to carry and cushion it, right before creating a vortex to make it stop. [ 38 ] Hawkman stated that when Barry and Wally ran around the world at immense speed, they created winds stronger than he had ever felt over all of his lives. [ 139 ] Dimensional Travel : Barry is capable of using his speed to travel to other universes within the Multiverse, and was even the first person to ever do this, when he traveled between Earth-One and Earth-Two . [ 152 ] [ 153 ] [ 154 ] By running at the speed of light, Barry can open a portal into the Speed Force itself, allowing him to enter and exit the dimension at will. [ 24 ] Using his Speed Mind also enables him to willingly enter the Speed Force, and even bring others with him. [ 32 ] He was also able to run into the Negative Speed Force alongside Eobard Thawne. [ 155 ] Barry can also create dimensional portals by projecting his Speed Force energy. [ 156 ] Electrokinesis : Barry is able to generate and manipulate the electrical energy he draws from the Speed Force. By focusing the lightning in his hands, Barry is able to enhance his strikes, [ 157 ] generate lightning to provide people with warmth, [ 48 ] as well as electrocute people on contact. [ 158 ] When generated at high volumes, Barry's Speed Force energy is powerful enough to disrupt the Green , the Microverse , and even Magic , as well as easily destroy Green Lantern constructs on contact. [ 139 ] He can even pull the entirety of the Speed Force's energy into his body, [ 159 ] and even extend his energy to every living being on the planet. [ 120 ] Barry's electrokinesis is so receptive and potent, that he can rejuvenate himself by absorbing lightning from another source, even if it's not from the Speed Force. [ 160 ] Barry's lightning is even workable underwater. [ 161 ] His lightning can even make shadow monsters solid and can negate them. [ 162 ] Electro-Blast : By focusing his frequency, Barry can turn his body into a lightning rod, in order to build up a Speed Force charge and redirect it. [ 118 ] By doing this, he can project bolts of lightning from his hands. [ 163 ] Barry was also able to forcefully discharge a large burst of lightning from his entire body, to knock back Professor Zoom. [ 157 ] Electromagnetism : Due to his electrical abilities, Barry is able to manipulate the electromagnetic spectrum to some extent. The heat from Barry's lightning creates a thermal expansion that allows Barry's suit to be stored in his ring. [ 164 ] Every time he releases his suit from his ring, the pieces of it are conducted by his lightning to form the suit around him. [ 164 ] He can also manipulate electromagnetism to mentally control the pieces that form his mask, and cause the mask to construct over his face and retract back on command. [ 51 ] Barry can also use his lightning to create electromagnetic fields. [ 165 ] Photokinesis : Barry is able to generate blinding amounts of light through his Speed Force lightning. [ 57 ] By manipulating his aura, Barry can release a powerful blast of light called a "photonic boom." [ 166 ] Energy Transformation : When using excess amounts of Speed Force energy, Barry enters a supercharged state where he essentially becomes pure energy. While in this state, Barry's powers are heightened [ 167 ] [ 168 ] [ 169 ] [ 170 ] [ 171 ] and he can move so fast, that he can exist on multiple planes of reality at once. [ 172 ] [ 173 ] According to Pied Piper, if he wasn't careful, he'd run the risk of hurting himself and/or anyone around him. [ 174 ] Speed Force Absorption : By interlocking energy currents, Barry can drain away the Speed Force [ 50 ] or Negative Speed Force, [ 175 ] from speedsters or other energy sources, such as a Speed Force storm. [ 175 ] Though if the one the Speed Force is being stolen from resists, they may be killed, unless the energy is distributed among multiple people. When drained of his Speed Force energy by Daniel West, Barry was able to directly absorb it back. [ 42 ] Speed Force Negation : By interlocking his Speed Force energy currents with another speedster, Barry is able to temporarily short circuit the other speedsters power, causing a "lightning burst." [ 53 ] Enhanced Mental Process : By tapping into the Speed Force with his brain, Barry can eliminate the natural bottle-necking of information, that occurs due to the limits of human physiology. [ 19 ] Because of this, Barry can think exponentially faster than any normal human, and possesses superhuman mental processing. He has managed to keep track of and process all of a security room's computers in order to watch over a total of 400 people for an unveiling event, while undercover with Batman. [ 176 ] Barry's mind moves so fast that he is heavily resistant to mind control and possesses some resistance to other psychic attacks, because of this. [ 177 ] Barry can see patterns in Chaotic situations. [ 178 ] According to Superman, he can think 3 moves ahead of most people, except for Barry and Wally themselves. [ 179 ] [ 180 ] Barry can think quickly, mapping out the potential outcomes of a situation and reading books in an instant. [ 181 ] Speed Mind : By tapping into the Speed Force with his brain, Barry has the ability to tactically assess and predict the numerous possible and probable outcomes of almost any given situation. [ 182 ] [ 183 ] By playing advanced variable examinations within his head he can simulate a quick pre-play sequence of a number of causes, effects, and inevitable outcomes at an accelerated rate. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] [ 28 ] Barry's speed mind has also allowed him to instantly learn to operate a Green Lantern Ring . [ 184 ] Barry can even use the Speed Mind to send his consciousness into the Speed Force to check other timelines in the span of a second. [ 185 ] Flash can also use this ability to push out into the Speed Force and feel beyond the limits of his mind. [ 186 ] Enhanced Senses : The Speed Force grants Barry enhanced senses that allow him to perceive the world at a rate attuned his reaction speed. [ 18 ] He can feel the slightest changes in air pressure around him, as well as electromagnetic pulses, in objects such as glass. [ 187 ] He can also sense the whereabouts of other Speed Force conduits, by using their connection as a homing beacon and track them. [ 38 ] Flash can even sense the vibrational frequency of any world in the multiverse. [ 188 ] [ 189 ] Even while being stalled in frozen time, Barry's senses still allowed him to notice it. [ 190 ] [ 191 ] [ 119 ] [ 192 ] [ 193 ] Flash can sense the vibrational frequency of any world in the multiverse. [ 188 ] [ 194 ] Enhanced Vision : Barry is able to vibrate his eyes on different frequencies in order to see different wavelengths of light, essentially seeing things that would be invisible to most people. He also has an enhanced range of sight, that allows him to see things clearly from far farther away than normal humans. He can also see objects before the light from them reaches the pupil of his eye. [ 195 ] While vibrating at super speed, he even managed to see Golden Glider who appeared invisible to everyone else. [ 29 ] Barry can watch camera video feed in fast forward and perceive each individual image frame by frame. [ 196 ] Due to his powers, Barry can also see supernatural beings that remain invisible to most people, e.g. the House of Mystery or spirits. [ 195 ] [ 197 ] [ 196 ] Cosmic Awareness : Like other speedsters, due to his connection to the Speed Force, Barry can sense cosmic and temporal disturbances from the Timestream. He can even sense when someone's trying to tap into the Speed Force. [ 198 ] Barry has even broken the Fourth Wall . [ 199 ] [ 200 ] Speed Force Visions : The Speed Force will sometimes give Barry visions of the future as a warning sense, as well as tidbits of information in regards to what's coming next. [ 47 ] The visions are fast but largely incoherent, piecing together bits and pieces of random upcoming events that have yet to happen while also depicting instants mirroring what led up to various continuity reboots. [ 201 ] One of the dangers of this power however, causes acute mental destabilization with each burst of insight; after having a second blast of possible future outcomes making him psychologically unstable. [ 54 ] Speed Force Empathy : The Speed Force grants Barry an empathetic connection to other conduits of the Speed Force, allowing Barry to sense their emotions. [ 52 ] Molecular Acceleration : Barry can vibrate his own molecular structure at varying degrees for a number of purposes, by adjusting to different frequencies. [ 202 ] [ 203 ] When vibrating at a high enough frequency, he can cause things to explode on contact. [ 18 ] He can even do this to an opponent. [ 204 ] Flash has even vibrated himself at 10,000 vibrations per second. [ 205 ] When possessed by a ghost, Barry was able to adjust his frequency in order to trap the spirit in his body, while still staying in control. [ 196 ] Barry also managed to reassemble his body's molecules, when his vibrations were disrupted and his molecules were scattered apart. [ 206 ] He also managed to break free from false reality, just by vibrating. [ 188 ] When vibrating at a certain frequency, Barry can also disrupt constructs of magic. [ 207 ] [ 208 ] By vibrating himself and the Cosmic Treadmill at a fast enough frequency, Barry was able to send a vibration into the skulls of the Flash Family to communicate a message to them, like "voices down a tin-can thread." [ 147 ] Phasing : By vibrating his molecules on an atomic level, and by doing so at just the right frequency, he can allow himself to become momentarily intangible, and phase through objects. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] [ 32 ] Intangibility : By accelerating his molecular frequency to a high enough degree, Barry can make his body intangible and allow projectiles to pass through him. [ 32 ] [ 38 ] [ 209 ] Flash can use this ability to bypass dangers, such as explosions. [ 210 ] He can even cause other people or objects to become intangible, through contact. He was able to vibrate an entire airplane and everyone in it, in order to pass through a bridge. [ 20 ] Invisibility : By vibrating at a high frequency, Barry can turn himself invisible to the naked eye. [ 29 ] [ 211 ] Thermokinesis : Barry can use his vibrations to generate heat, especially when it comes to thawing people out of ice or just warming people up. [ 22 ] [ 30 ] [ 167 ] Retrocognition : Barry has shown on multiple occasions that he can remember certain events erased from his mind. He was able to remember Wally West when he reached out to Barry though the Speed Force, despite his memories of Wally being erased. [ 46 ] He was also able to remember his pre-flashpoint history with Eobard Thawne. [ 212 ] Sharing the Force : Barry is able to use the Speed Force to "lend" velocity to objects or people already in motion. Barry may lend his speed and angular momentum to another object or person. [ 184 ] [ 213 ] This may allow others to run alongside with the Flash. Barry did this with Wallace West by "locking" him in with his speed, granting him the boost needed to move at Barry's speed. [ 57 ] Speed Steal : Barry admits that he can steal speed from others, but he needs to be in close range in order to do it. [ 199 ] [ 214 ] When infected by the Negative Speed Force, Barry stole all of Reverse-Flash's speed. [ 215 ] Time Acceleration : During one of his battles with Professor Zoom, Barry realized that he can use the Speed Force to move time forward, allowing him to speed up the flow of time. By doing this, Barry was able to negate Zoom's power to slow time. In this instance, this power caused Barry's lightning to turn white. [ 157 ] In a battle with the Turtle, Barry used the Speed Force to connect with every living being on the planet, in order to speed up time a few seconds into the future and bring everyone else with him, except for the Turtle. [ 120 ] Time Travel : Barry can use his speed to travel throughout the time stream. [ 39 ] [ 42 ] While originally needing the Cosmic Treadmill to achieve this, [ 60 ] [ 216 ] Barry eventually learned to time travel on his own. [ 42 ] [ 215 ] Barry has also raced along the borders of hypertime , the part of the time stream where overarching and interconnected web of timelines and realities exist. [ 217 ] [ 218 ] Because of Barry's ability to travel through time, he has the power to potentially alter the timeline, as he had previously changed it on his own power, during the Flashpoint. [ 212 ] [ 216 ]
Superhuman Speed : Barry is capable of moving at incredible superhuman speeds. He is far faster than Superman and Supergirl [ 126 ] [ 127 ] and almost as fast as Wally West. Barry can move far beyond lightspeed without any effort, and was even able to move when time was frozen. [ 128 ] [ 57 ] [ 129 ] When he was asleep, Barry moved so fast none of the Flash Family members could catch him, even giving Wally West trouble keeping up with him. [ 130 ] However, Barry is always so immersed in the science of the Speed Force that he doesn't cut loose and simply enjoy his speed, which leaves him a bit slower than Wally West, who is the fastest being in the multiverse. [ 131 ]
Superhuman Reflexes : Barry's reaction time is augmented to superhuman levels. His great reflexes have allowed him to perform feats such as dodging lightning. [ 27 ] His body sends pain messages to his brain at such a velocity that the femtosecond he feels something, he will react. [ 21 ]
Superhuman Stamina : Barry's body can handle the stress of moving at superhuman speeds for long periods of time without out getting tired or weak. [ 18 ] After being pricked by one of Poison Ivy's toxic thorns, he ran at supersonic speed for more than a day, just to keep the toxin from metabolizing into his bloodstream. Even after running in circles for days non-stop, to keep the toxin from taking over; Barry still had enough stamina to run back and rescue Batman. [ 132 ] Barry can maintain a state of vibrating his molecules for hours on end, even without gravity, before passing out. [ 133 ]
Superhuman Agility : Barry's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily maneuver and leap far distances while moving at superhuman speed. [ 18 ] [ 134 ] [ 135 ]
Superhuman Strength : The Flash can use his speed to boost his natural strength. [ 136 ] The faster the Flash accelerates towards lightspeed, the more his mass increases, greatly enhancing the force behind his punches. By moving at just under the speed of light, Barry can perform a "near-infinite mass" punch, which he describes as the mightiest punch in the multiverse. However, he rarely does this, as it can easily deform space-time itself, if he holds it for more than an instant. When Barry used this ability on the Anti-Monitor, the force of Barry's punch was strong enough to knock the Anti-Monitor through multiple realities and nearly defeat him. [ 137 ] Barry can generate enough force through his speed to easily smash through metal walls. [ 138 ] Barry was strong enough to hurl Wally West across a street and into a building, [ 139 ] as well as pull a van carrying ten people in it. [ 140 ] He also carried a large statue from Central City all the way back to Corto Maltese , [ 141 ] and easily snapped Captain Boomerang's metal boomerangs and break apart Darwin Elias' energy gun, with his bare hands. [ 142 ] [ 143 ]
Speed Force Aura : The Flash's body is surrounded by a Speed Force Aura, or "friction cushion" - a bubble of space-time accelerated to the same velocity as Barry. [ 144 ] This aura allows Barry to breathe and hear sounds while moving at immense speeds, as well as protects him and anyone who he is running with from the rigorous effects of using his speed, including friction, airborne particulate matter, kinetic impacts, G-Force and the like. [ 145 ] [ 114 ] [ 126 ] Barry can also sync his aura with anyone he chooses, giving him the ability to pull them alongside him with a thought. [ 146 ] He is also capable of using his aura to restrain enemies that are in his aura's vicinity, however this takes immense focus. [ 147 ] By running around enemies, Barry can trap them in a force-field that he creates by compressing his aura. [ 148 ] Superhuman Durability : Thanks to his protective Speed Force aura, Barry is capable of resisting tremendous kinetic impact forces that could easily crush or kill a human, without suffering any serious external or internal injuries. He was able to hit Gorilla Grodd with enough to force to shatter his own armor, and suffered no injury. [ 32 ] Energy Resistance : Barry's Speed Force aura also makes him highly resistant to most energy based attacks, especially electrical attacks.
Superhuman Durability : Thanks to his protective Speed Force aura, Barry is capable of resisting tremendous kinetic impact forces that could easily crush or kill a human, without suffering any serious external or internal injuries. He was able to hit Gorilla Grodd with enough to force to shatter his own armor, and suffered no injury. [ 32 ] Energy Resistance : Barry's Speed Force aura also makes him highly resistant to most energy based attacks, especially electrical attacks.
Energy Resistance : Barry's Speed Force aura also makes him highly resistant to most energy based attacks, especially electrical attacks.
Accelerated Healing : Barry can heal much faster than any regular human, due to his Speed Force Aura accelerating space-time around him, closing his wounds almost instantly. His arm healed within minutes of it being crushed. He was also able to quickly heal from the "bone crushing pressure" and "antagonizing trauma" of being 2,000 feet below the ocean, which dealt extreme damage to his body. [ 149 ]
Aerokinesis : By rotating his arms at super speed or running in a circular motion, Barry can create strong vortexes of wind. [ 19 ] [ 126 ] [ 150 ] [ 151 ] He has also used the slipstream of airflow created by his speed to draft millions of gallons of water behind him to keep a small village from flooding, [ 27 ] and pull two 600-ton barges behind him. [ 22 ] He even managed to save a train from jumping off the tracks by creating a slipstream to carry and cushion it, right before creating a vortex to make it stop. [ 38 ] Hawkman stated that when Barry and Wally ran around the world at immense speed, they created winds stronger than he had ever felt over all of his lives. [ 139 ]
Dimensional Travel : Barry is capable of using his speed to travel to other universes within the Multiverse, and was even the first person to ever do this, when he traveled between Earth-One and Earth-Two . [ 152 ] [ 153 ] [ 154 ] By running at the speed of light, Barry can open a portal into the Speed Force itself, allowing him to enter and exit the dimension at will. [ 24 ] Using his Speed Mind also enables him to willingly enter the Speed Force, and even bring others with him. [ 32 ] He was also able to run into the Negative Speed Force alongside Eobard Thawne. [ 155 ] Barry can also create dimensional portals by projecting his Speed Force energy. [ 156 ]
Electrokinesis : Barry is able to generate and manipulate the electrical energy he draws from the Speed Force. By focusing the lightning in his hands, Barry is able to enhance his strikes, [ 157 ] generate lightning to provide people with warmth, [ 48 ] as well as electrocute people on contact. [ 158 ] When generated at high volumes, Barry's Speed Force energy is powerful enough to disrupt the Green , the Microverse , and even Magic , as well as easily destroy Green Lantern constructs on contact. [ 139 ] He can even pull the entirety of the Speed Force's energy into his body, [ 159 ] and even extend his energy to every living being on the planet. [ 120 ] Barry's electrokinesis is so receptive and potent, that he can rejuvenate himself by absorbing lightning from another source, even if it's not from the Speed Force. [ 160 ] Barry's lightning is even workable underwater. [ 161 ] His lightning can even make shadow monsters solid and can negate them. [ 162 ] Electro-Blast : By focusing his frequency, Barry can turn his body into a lightning rod, in order to build up a Speed Force charge and redirect it. [ 118 ] By doing this, he can project bolts of lightning from his hands. [ 163 ] Barry was also able to forcefully discharge a large burst of lightning from his entire body, to knock back Professor Zoom. [ 157 ] Electromagnetism : Due to his electrical abilities, Barry is able to manipulate the electromagnetic spectrum to some extent. The heat from Barry's lightning creates a thermal expansion that allows Barry's suit to be stored in his ring. [ 164 ] Every time he releases his suit from his ring, the pieces of it are conducted by his lightning to form the suit around him. [ 164 ] He can also manipulate electromagnetism to mentally control the pieces that form his mask, and cause the mask to construct over his face and retract back on command. [ 51 ] Barry can also use his lightning to create electromagnetic fields. [ 165 ] Photokinesis : Barry is able to generate blinding amounts of light through his Speed Force lightning. [ 57 ] By manipulating his aura, Barry can release a powerful blast of light called a "photonic boom." [ 166 ] Energy Transformation : When using excess amounts of Speed Force energy, Barry enters a supercharged state where he essentially becomes pure energy. While in this state, Barry's powers are heightened [ 167 ] [ 168 ] [ 169 ] [ 170 ] [ 171 ] and he can move so fast, that he can exist on multiple planes of reality at once. [ 172 ] [ 173 ] According to Pied Piper, if he wasn't careful, he'd run the risk of hurting himself and/or anyone around him. [ 174 ] Speed Force Absorption : By interlocking energy currents, Barry can drain away the Speed Force [ 50 ] or Negative Speed Force, [ 175 ] from speedsters or other energy sources, such as a Speed Force storm. [ 175 ] Though if the one the Speed Force is being stolen from resists, they may be killed, unless the energy is distributed among multiple people. When drained of his Speed Force energy by Daniel West, Barry was able to directly absorb it back. [ 42 ] Speed Force Negation : By interlocking his Speed Force energy currents with another speedster, Barry is able to temporarily short circuit the other speedsters power, causing a "lightning burst." [ 53 ]
Electro-Blast : By focusing his frequency, Barry can turn his body into a lightning rod, in order to build up a Speed Force charge and redirect it. [ 118 ] By doing this, he can project bolts of lightning from his hands. [ 163 ] Barry was also able to forcefully discharge a large burst of lightning from his entire body, to knock back Professor Zoom. [ 157 ]
Electromagnetism : Due to his electrical abilities, Barry is able to manipulate the electromagnetic spectrum to some extent. The heat from Barry's lightning creates a thermal expansion that allows Barry's suit to be stored in his ring. [ 164 ] Every time he releases his suit from his ring, the pieces of it are conducted by his lightning to form the suit around him. [ 164 ] He can also manipulate electromagnetism to mentally control the pieces that form his mask, and cause the mask to construct over his face and retract back on command. [ 51 ] Barry can also use his lightning to create electromagnetic fields. [ 165 ]
Photokinesis : Barry is able to generate blinding amounts of light through his Speed Force lightning. [ 57 ] By manipulating his aura, Barry can release a powerful blast of light called a "photonic boom." [ 166 ]
Energy Transformation : When using excess amounts of Speed Force energy, Barry enters a supercharged state where he essentially becomes pure energy. While in this state, Barry's powers are heightened [ 167 ] [ 168 ] [ 169 ] [ 170 ] [ 171 ] and he can move so fast, that he can exist on multiple planes of reality at once. [ 172 ] [ 173 ] According to Pied Piper, if he wasn't careful, he'd run the risk of hurting himself and/or anyone around him. [ 174 ]
Speed Force Absorption : By interlocking energy currents, Barry can drain away the Speed Force [ 50 ] or Negative Speed Force, [ 175 ] from speedsters or other energy sources, such as a Speed Force storm. [ 175 ] Though if the one the Speed Force is being stolen from resists, they may be killed, unless the energy is distributed among multiple people. When drained of his Speed Force energy by Daniel West, Barry was able to directly absorb it back. [ 42 ]
Speed Force Negation : By interlocking his Speed Force energy currents with another speedster, Barry is able to temporarily short circuit the other speedsters power, causing a "lightning burst." [ 53 ]
Enhanced Mental Process : By tapping into the Speed Force with his brain, Barry can eliminate the natural bottle-necking of information, that occurs due to the limits of human physiology. [ 19 ] Because of this, Barry can think exponentially faster than any normal human, and possesses superhuman mental processing. He has managed to keep track of and process all of a security room's computers in order to watch over a total of 400 people for an unveiling event, while undercover with Batman. [ 176 ] Barry's mind moves so fast that he is heavily resistant to mind control and possesses some resistance to other psychic attacks, because of this. [ 177 ] Barry can see patterns in Chaotic situations. [ 178 ] According to Superman, he can think 3 moves ahead of most people, except for Barry and Wally themselves. [ 179 ] [ 180 ] Barry can think quickly, mapping out the potential outcomes of a situation and reading books in an instant. [ 181 ] Speed Mind : By tapping into the Speed Force with his brain, Barry has the ability to tactically assess and predict the numerous possible and probable outcomes of almost any given situation. [ 182 ] [ 183 ] By playing advanced variable examinations within his head he can simulate a quick pre-play sequence of a number of causes, effects, and inevitable outcomes at an accelerated rate. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] [ 28 ] Barry's speed mind has also allowed him to instantly learn to operate a Green Lantern Ring . [ 184 ] Barry can even use the Speed Mind to send his consciousness into the Speed Force to check other timelines in the span of a second. [ 185 ] Flash can also use this ability to push out into the Speed Force and feel beyond the limits of his mind. [ 186 ]
Speed Mind : By tapping into the Speed Force with his brain, Barry has the ability to tactically assess and predict the numerous possible and probable outcomes of almost any given situation. [ 182 ] [ 183 ] By playing advanced variable examinations within his head he can simulate a quick pre-play sequence of a number of causes, effects, and inevitable outcomes at an accelerated rate. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] [ 28 ] Barry's speed mind has also allowed him to instantly learn to operate a Green Lantern Ring . [ 184 ] Barry can even use the Speed Mind to send his consciousness into the Speed Force to check other timelines in the span of a second. [ 185 ] Flash can also use this ability to push out into the Speed Force and feel beyond the limits of his mind. [ 186 ]
Enhanced Senses : The Speed Force grants Barry enhanced senses that allow him to perceive the world at a rate attuned his reaction speed. [ 18 ] He can feel the slightest changes in air pressure around him, as well as electromagnetic pulses, in objects such as glass. [ 187 ] He can also sense the whereabouts of other Speed Force conduits, by using their connection as a homing beacon and track them. [ 38 ] Flash can even sense the vibrational frequency of any world in the multiverse. [ 188 ] [ 189 ] Even while being stalled in frozen time, Barry's senses still allowed him to notice it. [ 190 ] [ 191 ] [ 119 ] [ 192 ] [ 193 ] Flash can sense the vibrational frequency of any world in the multiverse. [ 188 ] [ 194 ] Enhanced Vision : Barry is able to vibrate his eyes on different frequencies in order to see different wavelengths of light, essentially seeing things that would be invisible to most people. He also has an enhanced range of sight, that allows him to see things clearly from far farther away than normal humans. He can also see objects before the light from them reaches the pupil of his eye. [ 195 ] While vibrating at super speed, he even managed to see Golden Glider who appeared invisible to everyone else. [ 29 ] Barry can watch camera video feed in fast forward and perceive each individual image frame by frame. [ 196 ] Due to his powers, Barry can also see supernatural beings that remain invisible to most people, e.g. the House of Mystery or spirits. [ 195 ] [ 197 ] [ 196 ] Cosmic Awareness : Like other speedsters, due to his connection to the Speed Force, Barry can sense cosmic and temporal disturbances from the Timestream. He can even sense when someone's trying to tap into the Speed Force. [ 198 ] Barry has even broken the Fourth Wall . [ 199 ] [ 200 ] Speed Force Visions : The Speed Force will sometimes give Barry visions of the future as a warning sense, as well as tidbits of information in regards to what's coming next. [ 47 ] The visions are fast but largely incoherent, piecing together bits and pieces of random upcoming events that have yet to happen while also depicting instants mirroring what led up to various continuity reboots. [ 201 ] One of the dangers of this power however, causes acute mental destabilization with each burst of insight; after having a second blast of possible future outcomes making him psychologically unstable. [ 54 ] Speed Force Empathy : The Speed Force grants Barry an empathetic connection to other conduits of the Speed Force, allowing Barry to sense their emotions. [ 52 ]
Enhanced Vision : Barry is able to vibrate his eyes on different frequencies in order to see different wavelengths of light, essentially seeing things that would be invisible to most people. He also has an enhanced range of sight, that allows him to see things clearly from far farther away than normal humans. He can also see objects before the light from them reaches the pupil of his eye. [ 195 ] While vibrating at super speed, he even managed to see Golden Glider who appeared invisible to everyone else. [ 29 ] Barry can watch camera video feed in fast forward and perceive each individual image frame by frame. [ 196 ] Due to his powers, Barry can also see supernatural beings that remain invisible to most people, e.g. the House of Mystery or spirits. [ 195 ] [ 197 ] [ 196 ]
Cosmic Awareness : Like other speedsters, due to his connection to the Speed Force, Barry can sense cosmic and temporal disturbances from the Timestream. He can even sense when someone's trying to tap into the Speed Force. [ 198 ] Barry has even broken the Fourth Wall . [ 199 ] [ 200 ]
Speed Force Visions : The Speed Force will sometimes give Barry visions of the future as a warning sense, as well as tidbits of information in regards to what's coming next. [ 47 ] The visions are fast but largely incoherent, piecing together bits and pieces of random upcoming events that have yet to happen while also depicting instants mirroring what led up to various continuity reboots. [ 201 ] One of the dangers of this power however, causes acute mental destabilization with each burst of insight; after having a second blast of possible future outcomes making him psychologically unstable. [ 54 ]
Speed Force Empathy : The Speed Force grants Barry an empathetic connection to other conduits of the Speed Force, allowing Barry to sense their emotions. [ 52 ]
Molecular Acceleration : Barry can vibrate his own molecular structure at varying degrees for a number of purposes, by adjusting to different frequencies. [ 202 ] [ 203 ] When vibrating at a high enough frequency, he can cause things to explode on contact. [ 18 ] He can even do this to an opponent. [ 204 ] Flash has even vibrated himself at 10,000 vibrations per second. [ 205 ] When possessed by a ghost, Barry was able to adjust his frequency in order to trap the spirit in his body, while still staying in control. [ 196 ] Barry also managed to reassemble his body's molecules, when his vibrations were disrupted and his molecules were scattered apart. [ 206 ] He also managed to break free from false reality, just by vibrating. [ 188 ] When vibrating at a certain frequency, Barry can also disrupt constructs of magic. [ 207 ] [ 208 ] By vibrating himself and the Cosmic Treadmill at a fast enough frequency, Barry was able to send a vibration into the skulls of the Flash Family to communicate a message to them, like "voices down a tin-can thread." [ 147 ] Phasing : By vibrating his molecules on an atomic level, and by doing so at just the right frequency, he can allow himself to become momentarily intangible, and phase through objects. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] [ 32 ] Intangibility : By accelerating his molecular frequency to a high enough degree, Barry can make his body intangible and allow projectiles to pass through him. [ 32 ] [ 38 ] [ 209 ] Flash can use this ability to bypass dangers, such as explosions. [ 210 ] He can even cause other people or objects to become intangible, through contact. He was able to vibrate an entire airplane and everyone in it, in order to pass through a bridge. [ 20 ] Invisibility : By vibrating at a high frequency, Barry can turn himself invisible to the naked eye. [ 29 ] [ 211 ] Thermokinesis : Barry can use his vibrations to generate heat, especially when it comes to thawing people out of ice or just warming people up. [ 22 ] [ 30 ] [ 167 ]
Phasing : By vibrating his molecules on an atomic level, and by doing so at just the right frequency, he can allow himself to become momentarily intangible, and phase through objects. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] [ 32 ]
Intangibility : By accelerating his molecular frequency to a high enough degree, Barry can make his body intangible and allow projectiles to pass through him. [ 32 ] [ 38 ] [ 209 ] Flash can use this ability to bypass dangers, such as explosions. [ 210 ] He can even cause other people or objects to become intangible, through contact. He was able to vibrate an entire airplane and everyone in it, in order to pass through a bridge. [ 20 ]
Invisibility : By vibrating at a high frequency, Barry can turn himself invisible to the naked eye. [ 29 ] [ 211 ]
Thermokinesis : Barry can use his vibrations to generate heat, especially when it comes to thawing people out of ice or just warming people up. [ 22 ] [ 30 ] [ 167 ]
Retrocognition : Barry has shown on multiple occasions that he can remember certain events erased from his mind. He was able to remember Wally West when he reached out to Barry though the Speed Force, despite his memories of Wally being erased. [ 46 ] He was also able to remember his pre-flashpoint history with Eobard Thawne. [ 212 ]
Sharing the Force : Barry is able to use the Speed Force to "lend" velocity to objects or people already in motion. Barry may lend his speed and angular momentum to another object or person. [ 184 ] [ 213 ] This may allow others to run alongside with the Flash. Barry did this with Wallace West by "locking" him in with his speed, granting him the boost needed to move at Barry's speed. [ 57 ]
Speed Steal : Barry admits that he can steal speed from others, but he needs to be in close range in order to do it. [ 199 ] [ 214 ] When infected by the Negative Speed Force, Barry stole all of Reverse-Flash's speed. [ 215 ]
Time Acceleration : During one of his battles with Professor Zoom, Barry realized that he can use the Speed Force to move time forward, allowing him to speed up the flow of time. By doing this, Barry was able to negate Zoom's power to slow time. In this instance, this power caused Barry's lightning to turn white. [ 157 ] In a battle with the Turtle, Barry used the Speed Force to connect with every living being on the planet, in order to speed up time a few seconds into the future and bring everyone else with him, except for the Turtle. [ 120 ]
Time Travel : Barry can use his speed to travel throughout the time stream. [ 39 ] [ 42 ] While originally needing the Cosmic Treadmill to achieve this, [ 60 ] [ 216 ] Barry eventually learned to time travel on his own. [ 42 ] [ 215 ] Barry has also raced along the borders of hypertime , the part of the time stream where overarching and interconnected web of timelines and realities exist. [ 217 ] [ 218 ] Because of Barry's ability to travel through time, he has the power to potentially alter the timeline, as he had previously changed it on his own power, during the Flashpoint. [ 212 ] [ 216 ]
Negative Speed Force Conduit : After being trapped in the Negative Speed Force (the natural antithesis of the positive Speed Force) by Eobard Thawne, Barry gained a connection to it due to being exposed to its energies. This connection caused Barry's lightning to turn black and red (later black and purple). [ 155 ] It would appear that he gained many of the Negative Speed Force abilities that Thawne possessed as well. Due to the Negative Speed Force corrupting his positive Speed Force energy, Barry is a lot more aggressive, seemingly less concerned about collateral damage. [ 215 ] He also seems to lack of control of the Negative Speed Force and always feels sore and exhausted after using its energy. [ 219 ] Superhuman Speed : While connected to the Negative Speed Force, Barry is capable of moving at vast superhuman speeds. His immense speeds allows him to keep up and rivaling the Reverse-Flash's speed while continuing to fight with him. [ 215 ] Superhuman Reflexes : Barry's reaction time is augmented to superhuman levels. [ 215 ] Superhuman Agility : Barry's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily maneuver and leap far distances while moving at superhuman speed. [ 215 ] Electrokinesis : While connected to the Negative Speed Force, Barry generates destructive, dark lightning, that he can project as bolts from his hands. The lightning can also cause things to explode on contact. [ 219 ] Electro-Blast [ 219 ] [ 220 ] Negative Speed Force Aura : Similar to the positive Speed Force, While Barry is connected to the Negative Speed Force, his entire body is protected by a field of kinetic absorbent energy that protects him from the negative effects of moving at super-speed. When shot at, the Negative Speed Force aura incinerated the bullets before they could hit Barry. [ 219 ] Disintegration [ 219 ] Explosion Inducement : Every time Barry is dealt damage, his Negative Speed Force Aura builds up until it releases a large explosion. [ 220 ] Negative Speed Force Theft : Unlike regular Speed Force theft, Barry is able to tear Thawne's speed from him and leave him alive, an act which would kill a positive Speed Force conduit, if they are unwilling to give up their speed. [ 215 ] Speed Steal : Barry stole all of the speed from Reverse-Flash at one point, during their battle. [ 215 ] Time-Travel : Barry was also able to freely time-travel through his own power, unaided by the cosmic treadmill, while connected to the Negative Speed Force. [ 155 ] Transformation : The Negative Speed Force causes Barry to transform into the "Negative Flash," changing his suit colors to red and black, and his skin gray. However, in a calm state, he can revert back to his normal state, and the red/purple of his lightning becomes more pronounced than the black. [ 215 ] Negative Speed Force Constructs : Flash eventually learned he could generate a Speed Force costume without need of transforming into his darkened Flash persona. [ 62 ]
Superhuman Speed : While connected to the Negative Speed Force, Barry is capable of moving at vast superhuman speeds. His immense speeds allows him to keep up and rivaling the Reverse-Flash's speed while continuing to fight with him. [ 215 ]
Superhuman Reflexes : Barry's reaction time is augmented to superhuman levels. [ 215 ]
Superhuman Agility : Barry's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily maneuver and leap far distances while moving at superhuman speed. [ 215 ]
Electrokinesis : While connected to the Negative Speed Force, Barry generates destructive, dark lightning, that he can project as bolts from his hands. The lightning can also cause things to explode on contact. [ 219 ] Electro-Blast [ 219 ] [ 220 ]
Electro-Blast [ 219 ] [ 220 ]
Negative Speed Force Aura : Similar to the positive Speed Force, While Barry is connected to the Negative Speed Force, his entire body is protected by a field of kinetic absorbent energy that protects him from the negative effects of moving at super-speed. When shot at, the Negative Speed Force aura incinerated the bullets before they could hit Barry. [ 219 ] Disintegration [ 219 ] Explosion Inducement : Every time Barry is dealt damage, his Negative Speed Force Aura builds up until it releases a large explosion. [ 220 ]
Disintegration [ 219 ]
Explosion Inducement : Every time Barry is dealt damage, his Negative Speed Force Aura builds up until it releases a large explosion. [ 220 ]
Negative Speed Force Theft : Unlike regular Speed Force theft, Barry is able to tear Thawne's speed from him and leave him alive, an act which would kill a positive Speed Force conduit, if they are unwilling to give up their speed. [ 215 ] Speed Steal : Barry stole all of the speed from Reverse-Flash at one point, during their battle. [ 215 ]
Speed Steal : Barry stole all of the speed from Reverse-Flash at one point, during their battle. [ 215 ]
Time-Travel : Barry was also able to freely time-travel through his own power, unaided by the cosmic treadmill, while connected to the Negative Speed Force. [ 155 ]
Transformation : The Negative Speed Force causes Barry to transform into the "Negative Flash," changing his suit colors to red and black, and his skin gray. However, in a calm state, he can revert back to his normal state, and the red/purple of his lightning becomes more pronounced than the black. [ 215 ]
Negative Speed Force Constructs : Flash eventually learned he could generate a Speed Force costume without need of transforming into his darkened Flash persona. [ 62 ]
Strength Force Conduit : After being accidentally exposed to the Strength Force energy - a cosmic force based around gravity and the force of motion, Flash gained access to it as a conduit. Being a Strength Force Conduit radically increases Barry's physical strength and durability. [ 221 ] Superhuman Strength : The Strength Force enhanced Flash's strength to superhuman levels. However, due to a lack of control over this new force, the energy also increases his body size and muscles, turning him into a humanoid-giant. [ 221 ] Superhuman Durability : The Strength Force also enhances Flash's durability to superhuman levels. But it seems the level of durability depends on how much energy that he absorbs from it. [ 222 ] Gravity Manipulation : By focused the Strength Force energy on the weight instead of the strength, Flash is able to manipulate and control the gravitational field around him, which is also able to reduce his body size and muscles to normal. [ 222 ]
Superhuman Strength : The Strength Force enhanced Flash's strength to superhuman levels. However, due to a lack of control over this new force, the energy also increases his body size and muscles, turning him into a humanoid-giant. [ 221 ]
Superhuman Durability : The Strength Force also enhances Flash's durability to superhuman levels. But it seems the level of durability depends on how much energy that he absorbs from it. [ 222 ]
Gravity Manipulation : By focused the Strength Force energy on the weight instead of the strength, Flash is able to manipulate and control the gravitational field around him, which is also able to reduce his body size and muscles to normal. [ 222 ]
Still Force Conduit : Barry established a connection to the Still Force, a cosmic energy field that allows its conduits to negate motion on a molecular level. Barry did this by using the already existing Still Force energies trapped in his body by Grodd. [ 223 ] [ 224 ] Motion Negation
Motion Negation
Abilities
Acrobatics [ 18 ] [ 31 ]
Chemistry : According to Dr. Alchemy, Barry goes down in history as the Supreme Chemist. His knowledge is so great, that he managed to create his own Philosopher's Stone . [ 225 ]
Computer Operation [ 226 ] [ 227 ]
Criminology : Barry graduated from college with a degree in forensic science. [ 228 ]
Disguise [ 229 ]
Firearms [ 18 ] [ 37 ]
Forensic Pathology [ 18 ] [ 39 ]
Meditation [ 230 ] [ 231 ]
Genius Level Intellect : Barry possesses a great knowledge of chemistry and forensic sciences. He was capable of creating his own alloy for the conception of his Flash Ring , along with creating a new element known as Lighzinium. [ 232 ] Barry has shown smart enough to outwit Dr. Alchemy, who possessed the combined knowledge and experience of previous owners who also claimed the title of Dr. Alchemy. [ 233 ]
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Advanced) : Due to his police training, [ 234 ] and training with the Justice League throughout the years, Barry became a highly skilled combatant, capable of utilizing his speed to his advantage in combat. Barry has honed his skills to the point that he can incorporate martial arts techniques into his fighting style. [ 229 ]
Indomitable Will : Barry possesses enough willpower to operate a Green Lantern Ring. [ 184 ]
Investigation : [ 235 ] Barry is a master detective, to the point that even Batman couldn't tell who was the better detective between the two of them. [ 236 ] Superman has stated that Barry is one of the best CSIs and Detectives in the world. [ 237 ] He can easily start to paint a picture of a crime scene before even running any tests. [ 60 ] He managed to deduce the location of several missing children in a child abduction case. [ 184 ] Barry also successfully deduced that he was trapped in a false reality, due to it not having vibrational frequency. [ 188 ]
Mechanical Engineering [ 238 ] [ 239 ] [ 240 ]
Stealth [ 20 ] [ 37 ]
Leadership [ 241 ] [ 242 ]
Pedagogy : Barry has trained Jessica Cruz in what he knows on how to utilize her Power Ring better, with his own knowledge and experience with Green Lantern technology. [ 243 ] He has taught Iris West some fighting techniques. [ 244 ] He even helped train Kid Flash and Godspeed on how to properly utilize their powers. [ 245 ] [ 246 ]
Tactical Analysis : Despite his unique speed, Barry is not above coming up with a plan and/or investigating about a situation ahead of time, before prompting into a fight. [ 247 ]
Weaponry : Barry fought alongside the Justice League when they were forced to fight in Mongul's tournament, with a flail and shield. [ 248 ] During his time in Iron Heights, Barry was forced to rely on the Rogues' weapons to survive and protect others. [ 37 ] He also once stole a pair of batons from members of Mob Rule, and blitzed the horde with them. [ 19 ] Barry has even made use of an axe and a short sword, [ 184 ] being able to keep up with Deathstroke in a sword fight. [ 140 ] Swordsmanship [ 184 ] [ 140 ]
Swordsmanship [ 184 ] [ 140 ]
Swimming : Barry is a very good swimmer and has been able to race Aquaman to a draw in a underwater race. [ 249 ]
Weaknesses
Power Instability : According to Nightwing , the Flash needs room to operate while in a hand-to-hand battle. When an opponent gets in close, Barry's blows are so fast, they could start to land on his own body. [ 250 ] [ 251 ]
Vulnerability to Dimensional Bursts : Amanda Waller stated that the Speed Force which fuel Barry Allen's powers can be disrupted by a potent enough extradimensional energy burst. She selected Vibe as a member of the Counter League Task Force to oppose the Justice League to work against the Flash, as Vibe's powers could disrupt his connection to the force in various ways. During one of their bouts, Barry permanently lost some of his speed due to Vibe's attack.
Vulnerability to Extreme Temperatures : If Barry is shot, hit, or falls for a trap that includes extreme temperatures of hot or cold. It can affect his durability and/or nullify his Speed Force abilities. [ 252 ] [ 253 ]
Vulnerability to Heat
Vulnerability to Cold
Vulnerability to EMP : If Barry becomes trapped in containment cell that involves an electromagnetic pulse, he will be unable to vibrate out to escape. [ 187 ]
Negative Speed Force Sickness : While infected with the Negative Speed Force, Barry was commonly nauseous and exhausted whenever he stopped using his powers, forcing him to use them sparingly. His ability to heal had also slowed significantly. It was revealed by Meena Dhawan that Barry was dying due to the Negative Speed Force conflicting with his positive. Fortunately, Barry was cured by Dhawan stealing his connection to the Negative Speed Force.
Power Instability : Also, while he was infected with the Negative Speed Force, Barry had a tough time controlling his new powers. His lightning, as well as powerful shockwaves produced by his slipstreams, caused widespread destruction. Barry also caused whatever he was phasing through to explode. However, when training with Kid Flash, his Negative Speed Force aura was calm, due to Wallace's unique Speed Force connection balancing his out.
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Flash's Costume Ring
Philosopher's Stone (Formerly)
Notes
Barry Allen was created by Robert Kanigher , John Broome , and Carmine Infantino , first appearing  in Showcase #4 . However, Barry Allen first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Flashpoint (Volume 2) #5 by Geoff Johns and Andy Kubert .
Flash (Barry Allen) appears as The Flash (Prime) a playable character in the Infinite Crisis video game.
Trivia
Barry was the first person to travel to another universe in the multiverse, when he traveled between Earth-One and Earth-Two. [ 154 ]
Flash has admitted to John Stewart that in his free time, Barry has traveled the Multiverse more than once, along with saving a few universes during his adventures. [ 254 ]
Barry was named after his grandfather. [ 255 ] [ 57 ]
Santa Claus believes he's faster than the Flash. [ 256 ]
According to Aquaman, Barry can hit a hundred times a second, which Barry confirmed when he threatened Batman. [ 257 ] [ 258 ]
Batman finds Barry to be humble. [ 259 ]
A "shadow god" defines Barry as a god of speed. [ 260 ]
The Riddler defines Barry as the most powerful hero on Earth. [ 261 ]
Batman believes that Barry could teach him a thing or two. [ 262 ]
Barry's birthday is May 13th. [ 263 ]
Flash has a pet tortoise that has super speed. [ 264 ]
Frankenstein holds Barry in high regard and views him as a warrior. [ 195 ] [ 265 ]
John Constantine finds Barry to be a huge threat that not even the Justice League have realized, and has prepared a way to subdue him. Ironically though, John does find the Flash useful. [ 266 ] [ 267 ]
Every year during Christmas time, Flash and the Rogues put their issues aside as Barry delivers presents to children all over Central City. [ 268 ]
Every year, Barry participates in The Speedster Games, an event that lasts an entire minute. He shares the title of being the second fastest Flash and being in the multiverse alongside Mercury Flash . [ 269 ]
The Spectre defines the Flash as an embodiment of Hope, while Wonder Woman sees Barry as the heart of their world who will lead them to a better future. [ 270 ]
Related
2 Appearances of Flash (Barry Allen)
Images featuring Flash (Barry Allen)
1 Quotations by or about Flash (Barry Allen)
Character Gallery: Flash (Barry Allen)
Footnotes
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal Speed Metal #1
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Flash (Volume 5) #70
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #71
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #72
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #73
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #74
↑ 7.0 7.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #75
↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.4 New History of the DC Universe #2
↑ The Flash Annual (Volume 4) #2
↑ FCBD Dark Crisis Special Edition #0
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #25
↑ The Flash #793
↑ The Flash #758
↑ The Flash 2021 Annual #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #1
↑ Doomsday Clock #12
↑ Titans (Volume 3) #5
↑ 18.0 18.1 18.2 18.3 18.4 18.5 18.6 18.7 The Flash (Volume 4) #1
↑ 19.0 19.1 19.2 19.3 19.4 19.5 The Flash (Volume 4) #2
↑ 20.0 20.1 20.2 20.3 20.4 The Flash (Volume 4) #3
↑ 21.0 21.1 The Flash (Volume 4) #4
↑ 22.0 22.1 22.2 The Flash (Volume 4) #5
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #6
↑ 24.0 24.1 The Flash (Volume 4) #7
↑ 25.0 25.1 The Flash (Volume 4) #8
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #9
↑ 27.0 27.1 27.2 The Flash (Volume 4) #10
↑ 28.0 28.1 The Flash (Volume 4) #11
↑ 29.0 29.1 29.2 The Flash (Volume 4) #12
↑ 30.0 30.1 30.2 The Flash Annual (Volume 4) #1
↑ 31.0 31.1 The Flash (Volume 4) #13
↑ 32.0 32.1 32.2 32.3 32.4 The Flash (Volume 4) #14
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #15
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #16
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #17
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #18
↑ 37.0 37.1 37.2 37.3 The Flash (Volume 4) #19
↑ 38.0 38.1 38.2 38.3 The Flash (Volume 4) #20
↑ 39.0 39.1 39.2 The Flash (Volume 4) #21
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #22
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #23
↑ 42.0 42.1 42.2 42.3 The Flash (Volume 4) #24
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #44
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #45
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #50
↑ 46.0 46.1 DCU: Rebirth #1
↑ 47.0 47.1 The Flash: Rebirth (Volume 2) #1
↑ 48.0 48.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #1
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #3
↑ 50.0 50.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #4
↑ 51.0 51.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #6
↑ 52.0 52.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #7
↑ 53.0 53.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #8
↑ 54.0 54.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #9
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #10
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #11
↑ 57.0 57.1 57.2 57.3 57.4 The Flash (Volume 5) #12
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #13
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #21
↑ 60.0 60.1 60.2 The Flash (Volume 5) #21
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #22
↑ 62.0 62.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #32
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #34
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #42
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #44
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #45
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #46
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #47
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #48
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #49
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #50
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #51
↑ Heroes in Crisis #2
↑ The Flash Annual (Volume 5) #2
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #69
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #78
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #83
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #85
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #86
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #87
↑ The Flash #750
↑ The Flash #751
↑ The Flash #752
↑ The Flash #753
↑ The Flash #754
↑ The Flash #755
↑ The Flash #756
↑ The Flash #757
↑ The Flash #758
↑ The Flash #759
↑ The Flash #760
↑ The Flash #761
↑ The Flash #762
↑ The Flash #763
↑ The Flash #766
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #2
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #3
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal Speed Metal #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #7
↑ Infinite Frontier #0
↑ Infinite Frontier #1
↑ Infinite Frontier #5
↑ Infinite Frontier #6
↑ Justice League Incarnate #5
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #75
↑ Dark Crisis #1
↑ The Flash #783
↑ The Flash #784
↑ The Flash #785
↑ The Flash #790
↑ The Flash #791
↑ The Flash #792
↑ The Flash #800
↑ 114.0 114.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #2
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #5
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #70
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #60
↑ 118.0 118.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #61
↑ 119.0 119.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #71
↑ 120.0 120.1 120.2 The Flash (Volume 5) #75
↑ The Flash #759
↑ The Flash #760
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #42
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #38
↑ Absolute Power #4
↑ 126.0 126.1 126.2 The Flash (Volume 4) #26
↑ Supergirl (Volume 6) #17
↑ The Flash (Volume 6) #8
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #41
↑ Knight Terrors: The Flash #2
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #50
↑ Batman: The Dark Knight (Volume 2) #7
↑ Trinity (Volume 2) #9
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #9
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #43
↑ Justice League: The Ultimate Guide
↑ Dark Crisis: Big Bang #1
↑ Batman: The Dark Knight (Volume 2) #3
↑ 139.0 139.1 139.2 The Flash (Volume 5) #49
↑ 140.0 140.1 140.2 The Flash Annual (Volume 5) #3
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #17
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #24
↑ Justice League vs. Suicide Squad #2
↑ The Flash (Volume 6) #2
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #2
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #43
↑ 147.0 147.1 Titans: Beast World Tour: Central City #1
↑ The Flash (Volume 6) #6
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #44
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #27
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #32
↑ Infinite Frontier #0
↑ Infinite Frontier #1
↑ 154.0 154.1 Infinite Frontier #3
↑ 155.0 155.1 155.2 The Flash (Volume 5) #26
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #63
↑ 157.0 157.1 157.2 The Flash (Volume 4) #47
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #24
↑ The Flash #762
↑ The Flash #767
↑ Aquaman & The Flash: Voidsong #3
↑ DC's Legion of Bloom #1
↑ Justice League: Rebirth #1
↑ 164.0 164.1 The Flash (Volume 4) #0
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #35
↑ The Flash (Volume 6) #10
↑ 167.0 167.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #86
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #87
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #88
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #42
↑ The Flash #756
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #83
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #87
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #87
↑ 175.0 175.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #44
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #21
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #40
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #11
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #6
↑ Action Comics #1000
↑ DC Comics Encyclopedia: New Edition
↑ DC Comics Encyclopedia: New Edition
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #11
↑ 184.0 184.1 184.2 184.3 184.4 184.5 The Flash Annual (Volume 4) #2
↑ The Flash #750
↑ The Flash #759
↑ 187.0 187.1 Justice League vs. Suicide Squad #3
↑ 188.0 188.1 188.2 188.3 The Flash #752
↑ Infinite Frontier #0
↑ The Green Lantern: Season Two #5
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #41
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #72
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #76
↑ Infinite Frontier #0
↑ 195.0 195.1 195.2 Justice League Dark #20
↑ 196.0 196.1 196.2 The Flash (Volume 4) #29
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #28
↑ Flashpoint Beyond #1
↑ 199.0 199.1 Justice League (Volume 3) #38
↑ Flash Facts
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #33
↑ Superboy (Volume 6) #16
↑ Supergirl (Volume 6) #16
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #55
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #15
↑ The Green Lantern: Season Two #4
↑ Justice League Dark #20
↑ Justice League Dark #21
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #34
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #14
↑ Justice League/Power Rangers #2
↑ 212.0 212.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #25
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #78
↑ Knight Terrors: The Flash #2
↑ 215.0 215.1 215.2 215.3 215.4 215.5 215.6 215.7 215.8 The Flash (Volume 5) #27
↑ 216.0 216.1 Batman (Volume 3) #22
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #33
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #50
↑ 219.0 219.1 219.2 219.3 219.4 The Flash (Volume 5) #28
↑ 220.0 220.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #29
↑ 221.0 221.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #53
↑ 222.0 222.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #54
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #6
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #7
↑ The Flash #766
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #1
↑ The Flash Annual (Volume 4) #2
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #7
↑ 229.0 229.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #62
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #6
↑ The Flash #760
↑ The Flash #763
↑ The Flash #766
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #25
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #1
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #64
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #65
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #6
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #52
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #22
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #35
↑ Dark Crisis: Big Bang #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #34
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #62
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #12
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #63
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #12
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #1
↑ Aquaman & The Flash: Voidsong #2
↑ Grayson #8
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #5
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #37
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #38
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #26
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #18
↑ Tis the Season to Be Freezin' #1
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #37
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #65
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #51
↑ DC's Legion of Bloom #1
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #52
↑ Aquaman & The Flash: Voidsong #3
↑ The Flash #758
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #16
↑ Justice League Dark #21
↑ Justice League Dark #14
↑ Justice League Dark #20
↑ DC Rebirth Holiday Special #1
↑ DC Cybernetic Summer #1
↑ Infinite Frontier #0
This character is or was an incarnation of or an ally of The Flash , and a member of the Flash Family of speedsters. This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Flash Family members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.

Barbara Gordon (Prime Earth)
Batgirl Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Barbara Joan Gordon [ 1 ] Main Alias Batgirl Other Aliases Oracle , [ 2 ] Bluebelle , Amy Beddoes, Knute Brody [ 3 ] Relatives James Gordon (father) Barbara Eileen Gordon (mother) James Gordon, Jr. (brother) Affiliation Batman Family , Batgirls , Birds of Prey , Justice League Unlimited · Formerly Batman Incorporated , Leviathan , Justice League United Base Of Operations Gotham City Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Vigilante , Businesswoman Characteristics Gender Female Height 5' 9" Weight 135 lbs (61 kg) Eyes Green Hair Red Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Julius Schwartz · Gardner Fox · Carmine Infantino First Appearance Flashpoint Vol 2  #5 ( October, 2011 )
Batgirl
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Barbara Gordon is both the Gotham City vigilante known as Batgirl and the elite computer hacker known as the Oracle . She is the daughter of Commissioner James Gordon and Barbara Eileen Gordon and the older sister of James Gordon Jr. .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Life and Career 1.2 The New 52 1.2.1 The Miraculous Killer 1.2.2 338 1.2.3 The Weasel 1.2.4 The Birds of Prey 1.2.5 Night of the Owls 1.2.6 Knightfall Emerges 1.2.7 The Return of Talon 1.2.8 An Estranged Marriage 1.2.9 James Jr.'s Return 1.2.10 Deadline 1.2.11 Batgirl of Burnside 1.2.12 Family Business 1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 Mindfields 1.3.2 Beyond Burnside 1.3.3 The Return of the Birds of Prey 1.3.4 Son of Penguin 1.3.5 The Phantom Zone 1.3.6 The Aqua Ghost 1.3.7 The Red Queen 1.3.8 Further Burnside Adventures 1.3.9 The Brightest Star in Heaven 1.3.10 Art of the Crime 1.3.11 Old Enemies 1.3.12 Doomsday Clock 1.3.13 Dark Knights: Death Metal 1.3.14 The Joker War 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Leaping into the Light 1.4.2 Urban Legends 1.4.3 The Cowardly Lot 1.4.4 Fear State 1.4.5 Get Grayson 1.4.6 The Battle for Blüdhaven's Heart 1.5 Batgirls
1.1 Early Life and Career
1.2 The New 52 1.2.1 The Miraculous Killer 1.2.2 338 1.2.3 The Weasel 1.2.4 The Birds of Prey 1.2.5 Night of the Owls 1.2.6 Knightfall Emerges 1.2.7 The Return of Talon 1.2.8 An Estranged Marriage 1.2.9 James Jr.'s Return 1.2.10 Deadline 1.2.11 Batgirl of Burnside 1.2.12 Family Business
1.2.1 The Miraculous Killer
1.2.2 338
1.2.3 The Weasel
1.2.4 The Birds of Prey
1.2.5 Night of the Owls
1.2.6 Knightfall Emerges
1.2.7 The Return of Talon
1.2.8 An Estranged Marriage
1.2.9 James Jr.'s Return
1.2.10 Deadline
1.2.11 Batgirl of Burnside
1.2.12 Family Business
1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 Mindfields 1.3.2 Beyond Burnside 1.3.3 The Return of the Birds of Prey 1.3.4 Son of Penguin 1.3.5 The Phantom Zone 1.3.6 The Aqua Ghost 1.3.7 The Red Queen 1.3.8 Further Burnside Adventures 1.3.9 The Brightest Star in Heaven 1.3.10 Art of the Crime 1.3.11 Old Enemies 1.3.12 Doomsday Clock 1.3.13 Dark Knights: Death Metal 1.3.14 The Joker War
1.3.1 Mindfields
1.3.2 Beyond Burnside
1.3.3 The Return of the Birds of Prey
1.3.4 Son of Penguin
1.3.5 The Phantom Zone
1.3.6 The Aqua Ghost
1.3.7 The Red Queen
1.3.8 Further Burnside Adventures
1.3.9 The Brightest Star in Heaven
1.3.10 Art of the Crime
1.3.11 Old Enemies
1.3.12 Doomsday Clock
1.3.13 Dark Knights: Death Metal
1.3.14 The Joker War
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Leaping into the Light 1.4.2 Urban Legends 1.4.3 The Cowardly Lot 1.4.4 Fear State 1.4.5 Get Grayson 1.4.6 The Battle for Blüdhaven's Heart
1.4.1 Leaping into the Light
1.4.2 Urban Legends
1.4.3 The Cowardly Lot
1.4.4 Fear State
1.4.5 Get Grayson
1.4.6 The Battle for Blüdhaven's Heart
1.5 Batgirls
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Abilities 2.2 Other Characteristics
2.1 Abilities
2.2 Other Characteristics
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Early Life and Career
Batgirl back in action
Barbara Eileen Gordon left her family when her daughter was young. Batman debuted. This inspired young Barbara to become Batgirl . Soon, she began working with Batman and his teenage partner, Robin . [ 4 ] She attended Burnside College , where she briefly dated Charles Dante . After a period of time as Batgirl, Barbara retreated from her role. Shortly after, she was shot in the spine by the Joker . [ 5 ]
While in physical therapy following her injury, she met Francine Charles ; they befriended one another after Barbara taught Francine some katas that aided with her therapeutic exercizes. [ 6 ]
Looking for other ways to fight, Barbara became a hacker and information broker, donned the identity of the Oracle and founded the Birds of Prey . [ 2 ] Years later, her father found a clinic where Barbara's condition could be mitigated. Barbara underwent surgery and received a cybernetic implant on her neck's nape. She fully recovered and returned to her position as Batgirl. [ 7 ]
The New 52
The Miraculous Killer
Main article: Batgirl: The Darkest Reflection
Batgirl defeating the Mirror
Shortly after her return as Batgirl, Barbara moved in to an apartment owned by Alysia Yeoh and came into contact with a villain calling himself the Mirror . The Mirror was attempting to kill a criminal who had survived a near-death situation the previous night. [ 8 ] After killing the criminal, the Mirror fled to a graveyard where Batgirl intercepted him. She was beaten by the Mirror before the cops arrived and the murderer fled. [ 9 ]
While researching into the Mirror, Barbara discovered that he was an ex-soldier whose family had died in a car crash, but he had miraculously survived. After Batgirl located his hideout, a screen activated and the Mirror told Batgirl that, due to his family's deaths, he took up the mantle of the Mirror. His aim was to kill all those who had survived due to a "miracle", as he saw them as curses instead of blessings. [ 9 ] He then told her of his next targets and she rushed to save them; however, she was too late, as one target was blown up with a train. [ 10 ] Batgirl then went on to lure the Mirror to an amusement park where she was finally able to end the killer's reign of terror. After defeating the Mirror, Barbara's mother showed up on her door step for the first time in years. [ 11 ]
338
Main article: Batgirl: The Darkest Reflection
One night while patrolling the city, Barbara came across a family of gangsters who were supposed to be laying low committing an act of terrorism. Upon investigating, Batgirl discovered all four of the men chanting "338", then the father killed his three sons and attempted to commit suicide. Batgirl was then attacked by a woman calling herself Gretel , who fled the scene almost immediately after. Gretel then attacked Bruce Wayne and, when Batgirl tried to intercept, Gretel put Bruce under her spell, causing him to chant "338" and attack Batgirl. [ 12 ] She was eventually able to get through to Wayne and free him from the spell; however, Gretel was gone. Upon returning home, she discovered that Gretel was a journalist who had been shot in the head by a 38. caliber bullet when she was investigating a crimelord. Upon surviving the gun shot she discovered she could control men. Gretel then made another attempt on Wayne's life, but was stopped by Batgirl and Batman before being sent to Arkham Asylum . [ 13 ]
The Weasel
Main article: Batgirl: Knightfall Descends
While on patrol, Batgirl came across a hostage situation at a gala. She fought against the metahuman villain Grotesque until he and his henchmen were forced to flee. Upon entering the sewer she came across the two henchmen, taking off the mask of one of them, under it she found a terror from her past - Danny "The Weasel" Weaver - one of the Joker's thugs on the night he took her legs. [ 14 ] Batgirl then let him go for reasons she could not explain. Upon returning to her apartment, her mother told her that the reason she left was because James Jr. had killed the family cat and told her that if she did not leave, Barbara would be next. Upon tracking Grotesque to his lair, she was attacked by the villain, who had the upper hand; however, Weaver shot at Grotesque long enough so Batgirl could defeat him, and after taking a mortal wound from Grotesque, the Weasel died. [ 15 ]
The Birds of Prey
Batgirl assisted the Birds of Prey on a mission when they went after the super-villain Choke . [ 16 ] She helped them take down Choke's sleeper agents known as the Cleaners . [ 17 ] They tracked down their leader, a psychic named Trevor Cahill , and Batgirl was finally able to reconnect with the Black Canary as close friends. [ 18 ]
Night of the Owls
Main article: Batman: Night of the Owls
Batgirl taking on a Talon
While on patrol Batgirl witnessed an explosion - she went to help the survivors but was attacked by a figure in an owl costume. The figure easily defeated Batgirl but instead of finishing her off she fled the scene, leaving behind a piece of paper. Upon examining the paper Batgirl discovered that it contained a date in kanji - November 1944 - as well as a balloon bomb. Barbara realized that the bomb and the paper was from World War II, when Japan sent balloon bombs across the ocean in hopes they would go to America and explode. Barbara then rushed to GCPD Headquarters as several balloon bombs had gone off there. At that moment a message was sent out by Alfred which said the Court of Owls - a secret society - had sent out their Talons to assassinate high profile targets who opposed them, and one such was Jim Gordon. Batgirl was able to intercept and defeat the Talon before it could reach its target. [ 19 ]
Later on in the night Batgirl travelled to assist the Birds of Prey with another Talon . However this Talon was a lot more skilled and sent the Birds of Prey on the retreat. The team then attempted to lock him in a freezer, as cold was the Talons' weakness. However he overpowered all of the Birds until Poison Ivy arrived and locked him and herself in the freezer - defeating him in the process. [ 20 ]
Knightfall Emerges
Main article: Batgirl: Knightfall Descends
Shortly after the Night of the Owls, Batgirl was taking down a group of car thieves at a charity gala run by billionaire Charise Carnes when one of the car thieves, Ricky, was caught in a bear trap. The gala security then took over the situation. When she was patrolling later that night she saw the gala security in costumes about to drop Ricky off a roof. The leader explained they are a group called the Disgraced who deliver punishment to criminals and kill them afterwards. The leader then dropped Ricky off the building and as Batgirl went to rescue him she was attacked by a flying woman named Kartharsis . Upon dropping her she said "Knightfall has risen" and that they would eradicate crime in Gotham. Batgirl was then surrounded by the Disgraced, headed up by their boss Knightfall . [ 21 ] She deduced that Knightfall was Charise Carnes as she was their boss at the gala. She was overpowered by the vigilantes but was saved by Detective McKenna and they fled the area. [ 22 ]
Batgirl vs. Batwoman
McKenna explained that Charise Carnes was forced to watch her family being butchered for three hours which left her mentally scarred. She was then found guilty of the murders and sent to Arkham. There, she was involved in another massacre, this time of Arkham guards. When she got out of Arkham she declared a deadly war on criminals and recruited many police officers to her cause. [ 22 ] Batgirl and Detective McKenna were then attacked by Batwoman , who was attempting to have McKenna arrested for corruption. [ 23 ] After convincing Batwoman to help them, the group travelled to Knightfall's base where she had Ricky hostage. Batgirl, Batwoman and McKenna were able to take down the Disgraced and Knightfall. McKenna went on to provide proof of Knightfall's crimes, however the villain was able to evade capture. [ 24 ]
The Return of Talon
Batgirl was investigating the burning down of many buildings by the homeless. Her investigation led her to a member of the Court of Owls. Upon spying on the meeting he was having with Catwoman , she noticed that the Talon from the G.C.P.D. Building was present. Catwoman had delivered the Talon to the Court from Blackgate Penitentiary but was having some ethical issues with the job. Batgirl then rushed into the building to save Catwoman from the Talon and her brethren. The Pair were outmatched by the four enhanced warriors until Batgirl was able to convince the Talon to change allegiance and change sides. The triplet then took down the Talons and the Court member killed himself. Catwoman then distracted the authorities while Batgirl brought the Talon - Mary - to safety. [ 25 ]
An Estranged Marriage
Main article: Batman: Death of the Family
While Barbara was on the phone to her mother, she went silent. Determined to find out what happened, she was contacted by who she thought was the Joker. The door then burst down and three of the Joker's thugs came in.
Batgirl's horrific wedding
After dropping them (much to Alysia's shock) she was given the location of her mother by the would-be Joker who revealed that he knew Barbara was Batgirl. [ 26 ] She then travelled to the location that the Joker informed her of and found her mother bound. It was at this time that Barbara realised the person on the phone wasn't the Joker as he revealed himself to be her brother, James Jr.,-escaped from Arkham. The Joker then revealed the severed ring finger of Barbara's mother and proposed with it. [ 26 ] After being forced to accept the proposal by the Joker she was given another location to be at within an allotted time. [ 27 ]
After rendezvousing with Batman and the Robins Batman informed them that the Joker had been gone for a year but had come back and slaughtered 19 police officers; he had then proceeded to commit crimes that mirrored several of his early crimes. He had also kidnapped Alfred and was torturing him, and had had his own face cut off by the Dollmaker as a calling card for Batman. [ 28 ] After fanning out to look for the Joker she received a message from the Red Robin that the Joker had kidnapped him and that she should advise the Teen Titans on where to look. [ 29 ] After doing that, Batgirl travelled to the church that the Joker had instructed her to go to and he revealed his plan - to kill all of Batman's allies who were making him soft and weak. [ 30 ] She was about to be killed when James Jr. walked in with a grenade, telling her that their mother was free. This tipped the scales, allowing Batgirl to beat the Joker; she was about to kill him when James Jr. knocked her out, as he wanted her out the picture for his plans. [ 30 ] When she woke up, she was at a dinner table with Alfred and the Robins. There, the Joker tried to convince Batman to give up on his family; not convinced, Batman broke free and defeated the Joker - seemingly killing him. [ 31 ]
James Jr.'s Return
Main article: Batgirl: Batgirl Wanted!
In the aftermath of the Joker's return, Barbara was helping the authorities apprehend many of the Joker's thugs. During this point she was contacted by James Jr., who said that he would enact his plans soon. While searching for several henchmen, Batgirl came into contact with the flame-based villain the Firebug . [ 32 ] After her encounter with the Firebug, she was informed that Robin had died, and decided to track down the Firebug instead of her brother. After locating the Firebug, she was able to take down the villain. Barbara's mother then told Barbara that James Jr. wanted her to come to the pier alone or he would kill Barbara. [ 33 ] Batgirl then followed her mother to the pier. After a brief struggle with her brother, he told her that he killed because of Barbara and how perfect she was. He then attacked the pair once more, which forced Barbara to fling him off the pier to his seeming death; however, Commissioner Gordon witnessed this and blamed Batgirl for his son's death. [ 34 ]
Deadline
Main article: Batgirl: Deadline
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Batgirl of Burnside
Main article: Batgirl: Batgirl of Burnside
After successfully taking down Knightfall, Barbara was emotionally worn-out and in need of a change of scenery. Barbara moved to Burnside , one of the wards of Gotham City, and started operating there. She also returned to her alma mater, Burnside University , and began post-graduate studies, hoping to use some of the algorithms she developed as the Oracle as part of her thesis. [ 35 ]
Although she became unexpectedly popular quickly, Barbara had to deal with someone sending villains after her and looking to ruin her reputation. Eventually, Barbara discovered her mysterious enemy was an A.I. gone mad that she had herself created. [ 36 ] Batgirl managed to shut it down before it brought about a bloodbath. [ 37 ]
Family Business
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
DC Rebirth
Mindfields
Main article: Batgirl: Mindfields
Barbara started getting memory lapses and nightmares created by a villain called Fugue whom she had put away some time ago. Using mind-scanning technology, Fugue had learned all of Batgirl's secrets and mind-controlled several more villains into planting bombs across Burnside, hoping to blame it on Batgirl. [ 38 ] Batgirl retaliated by recruiting several fellow heroines to stop the villains and she successfully took Fugue down. [ 39 ]
In the meantime, Barbara started up her own green energy business, although she needed to step down from day-to-day management. [ 40 ]
Beyond Burnside
Main article: Batgirl: Beyond Burnside
After defeating Fugue, Barbara decided to take a vacation to Japan. However this turned to out to be anything but relaxing when she ran into Kai, an old acquaintance of hers [ 41 ] who had got himself into trouble with several Asian criminal gangs. [ 42 ] Batgirl saved him, but she was not thrilled with Kai using her civilian identity to protect himself, and told him to never bother "Barbara" again before returning to Gotham. [ 43 ]
The Return of the Birds of Prey
Barbara found out someone was using her old "Oracle" identity and enlisted the aid of the Black Canary and the Huntress to hunt that person down.
Son of Penguin
Main article: Batgirl: Son of Penguin
Back in Burnside, Batgirl discovered that the Penguin 's bastard son, Ethan , was setting up shop in the town, [ 44 ] flooding Burnside with nonsensical mobile apps as part of a plan to take over the place and destroy his father. [ 45 ] In spite of his techno-suit, he was not a match for Batgirl. [ 46 ]
The Phantom Zone
Main article: Supergirl: Escape from the Phantom Zone
Batgirl and Supergirl
Tracking down a villain led Batgirl to National City where she met Supergirl . The younger hero asked Barbara's help to break into a Cadmus black site and rescue an imprisoned telepath named Gayle Marsh (Psi) . Barbara and Kara teamed up to free Gayle, but Gayle used Supergirl to enter the Phantom Zone . Both heroines managed to escape, but they agreed that the story was not over. [ 47 ]
Several days later, Barbara attended a clean energy expo in National City sponsored by TychoTech, a firm that used Kryptonian technology stolen from the D.E.O. to create a device powered by energy siphoned from the Phantom Zone . During the unveiling, Barbara met Supergirl again, and the Girl of Steel recognized her right away. Magog attacked Supergirl during the event and their battle broke the device down. Both Batgirl and Supergirl were thrown into the Zone. [ 48 ] There they were captured by Xa-Du , the Phantom Zone's first inmate. Xa-Du had captured Psi, intending to coerce her into opening a rift to escape from the Zone, but she encased herself in a psionic bubble. Therefore, Xa-Du was boiling other Phantom Zoners over and turning their souls into fuel for his armor in order to make himself powerful enough to break Psi's bubble. [ 49 ] Batgirl and Supergirl managed to escape and, while Supergirl reached Psi out, Batgirl engaged Xa-Du. Both girls managed to defeat the villain and Psi sent them back home. After their adventure, Barbara and Kara praised each other, and Barbara assured Kara that she could ask her help whenever she needed her. [ 50 ]
The Aqua Ghost
Batgirl went to investigate a supposedly haunted swimming pool. According to the workers, an ethereal being would show up in the swimming pool but not harm anyone, and once the people left the pool it would disappear. Barbara went to get the water tested, but after the results came back normal she was redirected to Professor Radden. Before meeting with him, she researched him and discovered his theory on Hydroportation - as well as the fact that one of his students went missing around the same time that he published his papers. Upon investigating the missing student's apartment, she discovered that the student had, in fact, come up with the theory. Batgirl then deduced that Radden had used his student's theory against her by trapping her in an alternate dimension, and then took credit for her work. She then realized that the student was the ethereal being and she was trying to cross over but could not because her anchors, the pool's visitors, always left before she could materialize. Batgirl then gathered a group of people and brought the student back. [ 51 ]
The Red Queen
Main article: Batgirl: Summer of Lies
Batgirl and Nightwing both received a message luring them to the same spot. They were ambushed by two identically dressed women, who delivered a threatening message to the heroes before committing suicide. Batgirl and Nightwing believed that they strongly resembled a woman named Ainsley Wells whom Barbara had been friends with while she was at high school. Years ago, Batgirl and Robin discovered Ainsley was creating a nanotech drug which she sold to the Mad Hatter in order to fuel her own drug addiction. Ainsley ended up suffering from an overdose and fell out of contact with Barbara.
Batgirl and Nightwing face the Red Queen
Batgirl and Nightwing suspected the Mad Hatter was responsible, but discovered that he was in the hospital and had not ordered the attack against them. The Mad Hatter awoke in a crazed state, warning the heroes of someone called the " Red Queen ". [ 52 ] In the hospital, Batgirl discovered a doctor who appeared to have gone berserk. They later discovered that nanobots were responsible for her behavior. [ 53 ] Batgirl and Nightwing discovered that Ainsley died homeless, and they deduced that the Red Queen was her sister, Edith , who was using the drug that Ainsley had developed for her own malicious purposes. [ 54 ]
Batgirl and Nightwing tracked down the Red Queen, who infected Nightwing with the nanobot drug. The Red Queen instructed him to kill Batgirl, blaming her for failing to save her sister from death. Batgirl was able to restore Nightwing's sanity using her electromagnets and her neural implant, temporarily paralyzing her legs in the process. Together, the duo managed to defeat the Red Queen and she was apprehended. Nightwing helped Batgirl restore her mobility before the two heroes went their separate ways. [ 55 ]
Further Burnside Adventures
Several months later, Batgirl had to stop Harley Quinn 's Christmas rampage when the villain decided to poison a whole Christmas party. [ 56 ]
A while afterwards, a sudden blizzard left Burnside covered with snow. When the Penguin rushed into offering his assistance to solve the crisis, Batgirl found his sudden altruism suspicious and decided to investigate why the Weather Administration had not foreseen the blizzard. Batgirl found someone had sabotaged the local weather station and created a false trail to get her out of Burnside. [ 57 ]
Batgirl came back to Burnside and found out that Blacksun had returned and stolen a mind-control device from a lab. Batgirl guessed Blacksun was now working for his father, and she soon discovered that the Penguin intended to use the stolen device to boost his future election campaign. Batgirl managed to stop both Cobblepots and turned them over to the police. [ 58 ]
Shortly after, as she was facing a domestic abuser, Batgirl was hit by a hypnotic beam which trapped her mind into a loop. [ 59 ] Batgirl looked for ways to break her mind out of the loop, finally realizing she had to act in completely unexpected ways to catch her own brain off-guard. Batgirl broke free, woke up and took the abuser down. [ 60 ]
The Brightest Star in Heaven
Batgirl vs. James Jr.
As investigating a cluster of similar murders, Batgirl noticed the murderer's modus operandi reminded her of her brother. Batgirl checked and found out that James Jr. remained behind bars, but her brother hinted that those deaths had been committed by some fan of his. James offered his fan mail in return for Barbara coming back and visiting sometimes.
Barbara did not intend to return until she tracked the murderer down and learned that the woman was not a fan, but rather her brother's disciple. James Jr. had reached out to her in order to instruct her and goad her into a confrontation with Batgirl. Barbara agreed to visit her brother occasionally, resigning herself to the idea that she was doomed to get tangled with her brother forever, and ignoring James' scheming to corrupt her. [ 61 ]
Art of the Crime
Batgirl started investigating a number of gruesome murders committed by her old enemy Grotesque, who had escaped from Blackgate and was no longer satisfied with merely stealing art. Batgirl caught him right after he killed an elderly couple, but he escaped and Batgirl chased after him. [ 62 ]
Back in Batgirl's original costume
Although Batgirl caught up with Grotesque, his electrical batons damaged her neural implant during their fight. Despite being dazed and barely able to walk, Batgirl chased him all the way to a safe house. However she soon suffered from a sequence of strange visions and suddenly found herself falling off the building. Batgirl managed to save herself, but she barely remembered what she had seen in Grotesque's safe house, and Grotesque torched the place down and ran away before she had time to return. Batgirl knew he was planning something big, though, so she sneaked into the GCPD Headquarters and hacked into their database to gather information. She was greeting her father when she collapsed all of a sudden. [ 63 ]
Barbara was taken to Gotham General Hospital , where she was told that they needed to replace her implant. Her father implored her to come back to his house and rest while waiting for the surgery. Batgirl pretended to agree, but as soon as she went up to her old bedroom, she pored over the data copied from the GCPD . Barbara learned the disturbing fact that Detective Evans, the officer assigned to the case, had stopped looking for Grotesque, and she got a list of safe houses to look around.
Despite risking permanent brain or physical injury, Batgirl headed out to stop her mass-murdering enemy. She discovered Phillipe Rianne, the original Grotesque, had been murdered a while ago. Batgirl confronted the new Grotesque and found out that he was someone who hated Gotham's wealthy families, so he was murdering them and selling their art collections while the police blamed, and looked for, his predecessor. Batgirl managed to take him down, but when she was calling the police she suffered another seizure. When she woke up, she found the police had come and Detective Evans was blaming Phillipe Rianne's murder on her. [ 64 ]
Batgirl managed to escape and go back home. After further investigation, she deduced Grotesque's real identity was Detective Evan Douglas, who was working for Wyrm . He had replaced the Gotham Museum of Antiquities ' pieces with fakes and, in order to cover up his crime, he intended to blow the museum up during an exhibit together with all of the attendants. [ 65 ]
Batgirl sneaked into the museum and fought Grotesque and Wyrm's Terminals, but Grotesque set the bombs off. However, when the Terminals refused to follow his orders to evacuate the civilians, Batgirl wrestled him to the ground and gave him a choice between dying together with everyone else or stopping being Wyrm's puppet and help her save people. Grotesque helps her destroy the bomb, but he is killed off by Wyrm.
Three days later, Barbara underwent surgery and her chip was successfully repaired. [ 66 ]
Old Enemies
Hunted by Cormorant
Batgirl was watching over a rally organized by Luciana Alejo, a politician who was running for Congress and focusing her campaign on the GCPD 's corruption. When a group of radicals attempted to sabotage the rally, Batgirl drove them away. Althought she could not stop them, she found out that their leader was ex-Commissioner Jason Bard , who framed her father for murder and whom she fought once. Guessing that Bard must be working for Alejo's rival, Branson Moore, she decided to volunteer for Alejo in order to protect her from Bard. However, she discovered that Jason Bard was working for Alejo. Bard claimed that he was trying to protect Alejo, and that Moore was not only behind the riot at her rally, but also had hired an assassin named Cormorant . [ 67 ]
After foiling an assassination attempt during a fundraiser, Batgirl decided to interrogate Branson Moore, but he had been assaulted by Cormorant, too. Batgirl found out Cormorant was working for someone who wanted to prevent Alejo and Moore's joint deal to close Blackgate Penitentiary . Cormorant had succeeded in scaring Moore, but Alejo refused to bail out. Against Barbara and Jason's warnings, Alejo scheduled a televised interview, refusing to request police protection. [ 68 ]
In spite of Bard's security and Batgirl's surveillance, Cormorant managed to sneak into the TV studio and tried to fulfill his contract. Batgirl engaged him, but Cormorant managed to take Alejo hostage. Batgirl was trying to talk him down when Jason Bard gunned Cormorant down. Despite Jason Bard's claims he had reformed and there was no other way to save Alejo, Batgirl decided someone who is able to kill so casually could not be trusted. [ 69 ]
Doomsday Clock
Main article: Doomsday Clock Vol 1
After Superman was framed and rendered comatose, Batgirl and most of the Batman Family joined the group of heroes heading towards Mars to confront their mysterious enemy. The heroes met and engaged Doctor Manhattan , but they were easily defeated. [ 70 ]
Dark Knights: Death Metal
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Joker War
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Infinite Frontier
Leaping into the Light
At some point after the Joker War, Barbara traveled to Blüdhaven to give Dick Grayson what Alfred had left him in his will. She gave Dick the contents of Alfred's will: several billion dollars. [ 71 ] After Dick's wallet was stolen and he saw the injustices going on in the city, he told Barbara that he would be the city's safety net. [ 72 ] Before Barbara could leave Blüdhaven, she had to serve as Dick's alibi when he was accused of murder by the Blüdhaven police. She later aided Dick and Tim Drake in investigating the homeless camp, where Dick came face-to-face with Heartless. [ 73 ]
After Dick awakened from a concussion suffered at the hands of Heartless, she showed him that Melinda Zuko had become the mayor of Blüdhaven. Despite Barbara's commands to rest, Dick went to confront Melinda. [ 74 ] After Dick came to, he quickly contacted Barbara to call off the rescue mission launched by several super-heroes. She did so, and told him not to trust Melinda. [ 75 ] After Dick escaped the Blockbuster, Barbara cared for Dick as he slept for two days. Before Dick went to meet the press regarding the creation of the Alfred Pennyworth Foundation, he thanked her for everything and they shared a kiss. [ 76 ]
Urban Legends
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Cowardly Lot
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Fear State
Batgirl returns to take on the Magistrate
As the Magistrate began to take over the airwaves of Gotham, Barbara decided to send a message via the Gotham City Emergency Broadcast System, only for her systems to be hacked and for the messages to be hijacked and spread a message of fear to the city and that Batman is dead. [ 77 ] Batman later arrived at the Clock Tower; there, Barbara filled Batman in on what had happened while he was imprisoned by the Scarecrow. Batman had her connect him to the Ghost-Maker so they could use his communications system. [ 78 ] Later, Nightwing arrived in Gotham after being set up by the false Oracle. Frustrated, Barbara decided to suit up in order to fight on the front lines, as she had been locked out of the system. [ 79 ]
After destroying her equipment to prevent the Seer from using it against her, she and Dick departed and went to Oracle 2, a back-up Barbara had built. Once there, they defeated the Magistrate soldiers and entered the building. There, they were exposed to fear toxin and Barbara saw Dick get shot in the head and attacked the assailant. Thankfully, Tim was able to save them, but they learned from the Seer that she had rigged the Clock Tower to explode, but only after posing as Oracle and having Cassandra and Stephanie meet at the Clock Tower. Barbara watched in horror as the Clock Tower exploded. [ 80 ] Babs, Tim, and Dick were relieved to find out Cass and Steph had escaped the explosion beforehand.
Together, they came up with a plan to board Skybase-01, where the Seer and Simon Saint where hiding. Babs and Dick failed to find the Seer, who had plotted a course for the base to crash into Gotham, but they did take down Saint and turn him into police custody after Babs altered the base's flight path into the harbor. On the shore, Babs pondered her next move against the Seer. [ 81 ]
Shortly after the events of Fear State , Babs had Cass and Steph stay at the Holmes hotel while she tried to figure who or what the Seer is and found them a loft to move into while she crashed at Dick's place. Babs returned to take Cass and Steph to their new warehouse loft, all the while being watched by the Seer. [ 82 ]
Get Grayson
After discovering a group of hitmen had dognapped Haley to try to lure Dick out into the open in order to collect the price on his head, Barbara helped Dick get Haley back both as Batgirl and the Oracle. [ 83 ] Later, Babs contacted the Titans in order to help protect Dick from several hitmen at a groundbreaking event. Babs oversaw their deployment and provided them with intelligence and direction, leading to a foiled assassination attempt. [ 84 ]
Barbara again helped save Dick when she informed him that the Blockbuster had sent a military drone to attack his apartment building. She was then later kidnapped by agents of the Blockbuster in an effort to force Dick out into the open. She was able to inform Dick and Wally West of her predicament and, not wanting to raise suspicions by easily escaping and wanting to find out who was in charge, she told Dick and Wally to wait to rescue her. They did so and confronted the KGBeast. [ 85 ]
After Dick and Wally took care of the KGBeast, they met together to share what they had learned. Dick's sister contacted him, telling him that the person that sent the KGBeast was La Agente Funebre, an assassin thought to be a myth. Barbara was able to track down the location of the last communication to Costa Rica, and Dick went to confront La Agente Funebre. [ 86 ]
The Battle for Blüdhaven's Heart
After Barbara attended the opening of Haven with Dick and Bruce, she assisted Dick in identifying BPD officers disguised as looters, [ 87 ] and later unveiled their identities on television, destroying Commissioner MacClean's reputation and forcing his resignation, which led to Maggie Sawyer becoming the BPD's new Police Commissioner. [ 88 ] [ 89 ] Shortly thereafter, Barbara assisted Dick and Melinda in tricking MacClean to flee with files containing evidence of the Blockbuster's crimes and the list of cops under his payroll, which were taken by Dick. [ 90 ]
After everything was in place, Barbara coordinated several super-hero attacks on the Blockbuster's criminal enterprises. This action led to the Blockbuster attacking Haven, which Barbara rushed to to assist Dick in his battle with the Blockbuster. [ 91 ] Barbara arrived with Batwoman and was able to disperse the Blockbuster's henchmen by showing them evidence of the Blockbuster's holdings in Blüdhaven's private prisons, in which criminals like the Electrocutioner spent time in. When the Blockbuster demanded that they help him flee after Dick defeated him, they refused and left. [ 92 ]
Barbara caught up to Dick, where he told her they could not be together since the Blockbuster discovered his identity and that it would be too dangerous for her. She laughed and responded as a super-hero that she was aware of the risks and was also willing to take them if it meant she could be with Dick, since it made her happy. They then shared a kiss. When Dick asked what they would do about the Blockbuster, she told him that they would cross that bridge when they got there. [ 93 ]
Batgirls
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Powers and Abilities
Abilities
Athletics
Dancing : Barbara took up ballet dancing as a young girl. [ 94 ]
Driving : Barbara can drive a car as well as her motorcycle with skill.
Firearms [ 95 ]
Genius Level Intellect Business Management : Barbara is head of her own green energy company. [ 40 ] Eidetic Memory : Barbara can recall anything she sees. [ 32 ] Investigation Multilingualism : In addition to English, Barbara is fluent in Mandarin Chinese, Japanese, and Korean. [ 96 ] [ 42 ] [ 43 ] Law : Barbara has a law degree. [ 97 ] Psychology : Barbara holds a degree in Forensic Psychology. [ 98 ] Computer Operation Computer Hacking
Business Management : Barbara is head of her own green energy company. [ 40 ]
Eidetic Memory : Barbara can recall anything she sees. [ 32 ]
Investigation
Multilingualism : In addition to English, Barbara is fluent in Mandarin Chinese, Japanese, and Korean. [ 96 ] [ 42 ] [ 43 ]
Law : Barbara has a law degree. [ 97 ]
Psychology : Barbara holds a degree in Forensic Psychology. [ 98 ]
Computer Operation Computer Hacking
Computer Hacking
Indomitable Will
Interrogation
Intimidation
Leadership
Lock Picking : Batgirl is skillful at manipulating locks. She keeps at least one lockpick hidden in the lining of her cape. [ 99 ]
Martial Arts : Being the daughter of a police commissioner, Jim has had Barbara taking self-defense since she was 6 years old. [ 100 ] Boxing [ 23 ] [ 96 ] Eskrima [ 96 ] Judo [ 96 ] Karate [ 96 ] Muay Thai [ 96 ] Taekwondo [ 2 ]
Boxing [ 23 ] [ 96 ]
Eskrima [ 96 ]
Judo [ 96 ]
Karate [ 96 ]
Muay Thai [ 96 ]
Taekwondo [ 2 ]
Throwing : Batgirl is accomplished at throwing Batarangs. [ 34 ]
Other Characteristics
Restricted Mobility : Barbara was paralyzed for three years after being shot by the Joker. However, she managed to overcome her paralysis with the help of groundbreaking medical treatment and returned to fighting crime. However, as a consequence of her long-term overuse of the neural implant in her brain, it has become strained, and resultingly her mobility varies from day to day, ranging from her peak ability to operate as Batgirl to being wheelchair-bound.
Neural Implant : Barbara had experimental surgery after her shooting. She has a neural implant at the base of her brain that connects to her lower spine, which bypasses the missing section of her spine and allows her to use her legs. If the implant is damaged or malfunctions, Barbara could become paralyzed and/or suffer brain damage.
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Batrope
Transportation
Batcycle
Weapons
Batarangs
Notes
Barbara Gordon was created by Gardner Fox , Carmine Infantino , and Julius Schwartz , first appearing  in Detective Comics #359 . However, Barbara Gordon first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Batgirl (Volume 4) #1 by Gail Simone and Ardian Syaf .
Trivia
Barbara has worked for the Local Municipality's Code-Compliance Department/Code Enforcement for Gotham City. [ 101 ]
She also worked as an assistant to Congresswoman Luciana Alejo. [ 102 ]
Barbara was shot by the Joker when she was 17 years old. [ 103 ]
As of Batgirl (Volume 4) #35 , Barbara was 21 years old, though successive continuity changes may have rendered that null and void. [ 104 ] . After the Dark Knights: Death Metal event, Barbara is mentioned to be the same age as Cressida Clarke, who was mentioned to be 24 years old. [ 105 ]
Batgirl was briefly married to Nightwing , but their marriage was quickly annulled. [ 106 ]
Barbara's childhood address was 359 Dozier Terrace. [ 107 ] This is a reference to her co-creator, William Dozier , and her first appearance in Detective Comics #359 .
Recommended Reading
Batgirl (Vol. 4) (2011-2016)
Birds of Prey (Vol. 3) (2011-2014)
Batman: Night of the Owls
Batman: Death of the Family
Batman and Robin: Robin Rises
Batman Eternal (2014-2015)
Batgirl (Vol. 5) (2016-2020)
Batgirl and the Birds of Prey (2016-2018)
Event Leviathan (2019-2020)
The Joker War (2020)
Dark Nights: Death Metal (2020)
Nightwing by Tom Taylor (2021-2024) ( Nightwing (Vol. 4) #78-118) Nightwing: Leaping into the Light
Nightwing: Leaping into the Light
Fear State (2021)
Shadow War (2022)
Batgirls (2022-2023)
Batman: Shadows of the Bat: The Tower (2022-2023)
Detective Comics by Ram V: Gotham Nocturne ( Detective Comics #1062-1089)
Birds of Prey (Vol. 5) (2023-)
Batman/Catwoman: The Gotham War (2023)
Beast World (2024)
More:
Batgirl Recommended Reading
Related
765 Appearances of Barbara Gordon (Prime Earth)
499 Images featuring Barbara Gordon (Prime Earth)
125 Quotations by or about Barbara Gordon (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Barbara Gordon (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #25
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Batgirl and the Birds of Prey: Rebirth #1
↑ Detective Comics #1000
↑ Batgirls #3
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #0
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #35
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #1 , 2 , 3 , 4
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #1
↑ 9.0 9.1 Batgirl (Volume 4) #2
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #3
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #4
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #5
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #6
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #7
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #8
↑ Birds of Prey (Volume 3) #4
↑ Birds of Prey (Volume 3) #6
↑ Birds of Prey (Volume 3) #7
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #9
↑ Birds of Prey (Volume 3) #9
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #10
↑ 22.0 22.1 Batgirl (Volume 4) #11
↑ 23.0 23.1 Batgirl (Volume 4) #12
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #13
↑ Batgirl Annual (Volume 4) #1
↑ 26.0 26.1 Batgirl (Volume 4) #14
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #15
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #15
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #15
↑ 30.0 30.1 Batgirl (Volume 4) #16
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #17
↑ 32.0 32.1 Batgirl (Volume 4) #17
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #18
↑ 34.0 34.1 Batgirl (Volume 4) #19
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #36
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #39
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #40
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #49
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #50
↑ 40.0 40.1 Batgirl (Volume 4) #51
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #1
↑ 42.0 42.1 Batgirl (Volume 5) #3
↑ 43.0 43.1 Batgirl (Volume 5) #5
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #7
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #10
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #11
↑ Batgirl Annual (Volume 5) #1
↑ Supergirl (Volume 7) #9
↑ Supergirl #10
↑ Supergirl (Volume 7) #11
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #12
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #14
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #15
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #16
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #17
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #18
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #19
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #20
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #22
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #23
↑ Batgirl Annual (Volume 5) #2
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #25
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #26
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #27
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #28
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #29
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #30
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #31
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #32
↑ Doomsday Clock #9
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #78
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #79
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #80
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #81
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #82
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #83
↑ Batman: Fear State: Alpha #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #112
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #84
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #85
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #86
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #117
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #87
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #88
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #90
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #91
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #92
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #93
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #94
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #94
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #95
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #96
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #96
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #0
↑ Batgirls #16
↑ 96.0 96.1 96.2 96.3 96.4 96.5 Batgirl (Volume 5) #2
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #80
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #3
↑ Supergirl (Volume 7) #10
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #0
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #50
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #50
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #16
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #35
↑ The Joker (Volume 2) #
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal The Last Stories of the DC Universe #1
↑ Batman/Santa Claus: Silent Knight #2
This character is or was an incarnation of or an ally of Batman , and a member of the Batman Family . This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Batman Family members " category.
Birds of Prey member This character is or was a member of the Birds of Prey , a team of female super-heroes that go on special missions across the world, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Birds of Prey members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.

Batman (Bruce Wayne)
Batman Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Bruce Thomas Wayne [ 1 ] Main Alias Batman Other Aliases Jack Shaw · Matches Malone · Doctor Fate (See Notes for more) Relatives Catherine Van Derm (great-great-grandmother, deceased) · Alan Wayne (great-great-grandfather, deceased) · Henry Wayne (great-grandfather, deceased) · Roderick Kane (maternal grandfather, deceased) · Constance Wayne (paternal grandmother, deceased) · Patrick Wayne (paternal grandfather, deceased) · Martha Wayne (mother, deceased) · Thomas Wayne (father, deceased) · Gabrielle Kane (maternal aunt, deceased) · Philip Kane (maternal uncle, deceased) · Jacob Kane (maternal uncle) · Helen Wayne (paternal aunt, deceased) · Thomas Wayne Jr. (alleged brother, deceased) · Kate Kane (maternal cousin) · Elizabeth Kane (maternalcousin) · Bette Kane (maternal cousin) · Dick Grayson (ward) · Jason Todd (ward) · Tim Drake (adoptive son) · Damian Wayne (son) · Mr. Wax (clone) · Robin of Zur-En-Arrh (clone, deceased) see Wayne Family and Kane Family for more Affiliation Batman Family , Guild of Detection , Justice League Unlimited , Wayne Enterprises · Formerly Batman Inc. , Justice League International , Justice League of America , Gotham Knights , Justice League: Team Entropy , Outsiders Base Of Operations Gotham City · Pennyworth Manor · Formerly Batcave , Stately Wayne Manor · Hall of Justice · Justice League Watchtower Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Vigilante , Businessman Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 2" Weight 210 lbs (95 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Black Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Bill Finger · Bob Kane First Appearance Flashpoint Vol 2  #5 ( October, 2011 )
Batman
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Batman is the superhero protector of Gotham City , a tortured, brooding vigilante dressed as a bat who fights against evil and strikes fear into the hearts of criminals everywhere. In his public identity, he is Bruce Wayne , a billionaire industrialist and notorious playboy. Although he has no superhuman abilities, he is one of the world's smartest men and greatest fighters. His physical prowess, technical ingenuity, and tactical thinking make him an incredibly dangerous opponent. He is also a founding member of the Justice League .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.1.1 Later Childhood 1.1.2 Travels and Training 1.2 Early Heroic Career 1.2.1 Batman Begins 1.2.2 The Zero Year 1.2.3 Cormac Dodge 1.2.4 Meeting Superman 1.3 Year Two 1.3.1 The War of Jokes and Riddles 1.4 Further Adventures 1.4.1 The First Robin 1.4.2 Zur-En-Arrh 1.4.3 Founding the Justice League 1.4.4 The Adventures Continue 1.4.5 Batgirl 1.4.6 World's Finest 1.4.6.1 The Devil Nezha 1.4.6.2 The Boy Thunder 1.4.6.3 Elementary 1.4.6.4 Heir to the Kingdom 1.4.6.5 IMPossible 1.4.6.6 Total Eclipso 1.4.6.7 20,000 Leagues 1.4.6.8 Bizzaro World Tour 1.4.7 Jason Todd and Tim Drake 1.4.8 Black Adam and Khandaq 1.4.9 Batman and Son 1.5 New 52 1.5.1 The Court of Owls 1.5.2 Death of the Family 1.5.3 The Demon Star & Gotham's Most Wanted 1.5.4 Requiem for Damian 1.5.5 Forever Evil 1.5.6 The Big Burn 1.5.7 Batman Eternal 1.5.8 Robin Rises 1.5.9 Endgame 1.5.10 Resurrection and Memory Loss 1.5.11 Darkseid War 1.6 DC Rebirth 1.6.1 I Am Gotham, I Am Suicide, I Am Bane 1.6.2 Gotham Knights 1.6.3 The Button 1.6.4 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.6.5 Rules of Engagement 1.6.6 The Wedding of Batman and Catwoman 1.6.7 Aftermath of Breakup 1.6.8 Bane's Conspiracy 1.6.9 Doomsday Clock 1.6.10 City of Bane 1.6.11 Justice/Doom War 1.6.12 Joker War 1.6.13 Ghost Stories 1.6.14 Death Metal 1.7 Infinite Frontier 1.7.1 Urban Legends 1.7.2 The Neighborhood 1.7.3 Fear State 1.7.4 Abyss 1.7.5 Shadows of the Bat 1.7.6 Shadow War 1.7.7 Failsafe 1.7.8 Gotham Nocturne 1.7.9 Dark Crisis 1.7.10 Flashpoint Beyond 1.8 Dawn of DC 1.8.1 The Bat-Man of Gotham 1.8.2 The Gotham War 1.8.3 Mind Bomb 1.8.4 Dark Prisons 1.8.5 Absolute Power 1.8.6 All In 1.8.7 Mother June 1.8.8 The Return of Hush
1.1 Early Life 1.1.1 Later Childhood 1.1.2 Travels and Training
1.1.1 Later Childhood
1.1.2 Travels and Training
1.2 Early Heroic Career 1.2.1 Batman Begins 1.2.2 The Zero Year 1.2.3 Cormac Dodge 1.2.4 Meeting Superman
1.2.1 Batman Begins
1.2.2 The Zero Year
1.2.3 Cormac Dodge
1.2.4 Meeting Superman
1.3 Year Two 1.3.1 The War of Jokes and Riddles
1.3.1 The War of Jokes and Riddles
1.4 Further Adventures 1.4.1 The First Robin 1.4.2 Zur-En-Arrh 1.4.3 Founding the Justice League 1.4.4 The Adventures Continue 1.4.5 Batgirl 1.4.6 World's Finest 1.4.6.1 The Devil Nezha 1.4.6.2 The Boy Thunder 1.4.6.3 Elementary 1.4.6.4 Heir to the Kingdom 1.4.6.5 IMPossible 1.4.6.6 Total Eclipso 1.4.6.7 20,000 Leagues 1.4.6.8 Bizzaro World Tour 1.4.7 Jason Todd and Tim Drake 1.4.8 Black Adam and Khandaq 1.4.9 Batman and Son
1.4.1 The First Robin
1.4.2 Zur-En-Arrh
1.4.3 Founding the Justice League
1.4.4 The Adventures Continue
1.4.5 Batgirl
1.4.6 World's Finest 1.4.6.1 The Devil Nezha 1.4.6.2 The Boy Thunder 1.4.6.3 Elementary 1.4.6.4 Heir to the Kingdom 1.4.6.5 IMPossible 1.4.6.6 Total Eclipso 1.4.6.7 20,000 Leagues 1.4.6.8 Bizzaro World Tour
1.4.6.1 The Devil Nezha
1.4.6.2 The Boy Thunder
1.4.6.3 Elementary
1.4.6.4 Heir to the Kingdom
1.4.6.5 IMPossible
1.4.6.6 Total Eclipso
1.4.6.7 20,000 Leagues
1.4.6.8 Bizzaro World Tour
1.4.7 Jason Todd and Tim Drake
1.4.8 Black Adam and Khandaq
1.4.9 Batman and Son
1.5 New 52 1.5.1 The Court of Owls 1.5.2 Death of the Family 1.5.3 The Demon Star & Gotham's Most Wanted 1.5.4 Requiem for Damian 1.5.5 Forever Evil 1.5.6 The Big Burn 1.5.7 Batman Eternal 1.5.8 Robin Rises 1.5.9 Endgame 1.5.10 Resurrection and Memory Loss 1.5.11 Darkseid War
1.5.1 The Court of Owls
1.5.2 Death of the Family
1.5.3 The Demon Star & Gotham's Most Wanted
1.5.4 Requiem for Damian
1.5.5 Forever Evil
1.5.6 The Big Burn
1.5.7 Batman Eternal
1.5.8 Robin Rises
1.5.9 Endgame
1.5.10 Resurrection and Memory Loss
1.5.11 Darkseid War
1.6 DC Rebirth 1.6.1 I Am Gotham, I Am Suicide, I Am Bane 1.6.2 Gotham Knights 1.6.3 The Button 1.6.4 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.6.5 Rules of Engagement 1.6.6 The Wedding of Batman and Catwoman 1.6.7 Aftermath of Breakup 1.6.8 Bane's Conspiracy 1.6.9 Doomsday Clock 1.6.10 City of Bane 1.6.11 Justice/Doom War 1.6.12 Joker War 1.6.13 Ghost Stories 1.6.14 Death Metal
1.6.1 I Am Gotham, I Am Suicide, I Am Bane
1.6.2 Gotham Knights
1.6.3 The Button
1.6.4 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
1.6.5 Rules of Engagement
1.6.6 The Wedding of Batman and Catwoman
1.6.7 Aftermath of Breakup
1.6.8 Bane's Conspiracy
1.6.9 Doomsday Clock
1.6.10 City of Bane
1.6.11 Justice/Doom War
1.6.12 Joker War
1.6.13 Ghost Stories
1.6.14 Death Metal
1.7 Infinite Frontier 1.7.1 Urban Legends 1.7.2 The Neighborhood 1.7.3 Fear State 1.7.4 Abyss 1.7.5 Shadows of the Bat 1.7.6 Shadow War 1.7.7 Failsafe 1.7.8 Gotham Nocturne 1.7.9 Dark Crisis 1.7.10 Flashpoint Beyond
1.7.1 Urban Legends
1.7.2 The Neighborhood
1.7.3 Fear State
1.7.4 Abyss
1.7.5 Shadows of the Bat
1.7.6 Shadow War
1.7.7 Failsafe
1.7.8 Gotham Nocturne
1.7.9 Dark Crisis
1.7.10 Flashpoint Beyond
1.8 Dawn of DC 1.8.1 The Bat-Man of Gotham 1.8.2 The Gotham War 1.8.3 Mind Bomb 1.8.4 Dark Prisons 1.8.5 Absolute Power 1.8.6 All In 1.8.7 Mother June 1.8.8 The Return of Hush
1.8.1 The Bat-Man of Gotham
1.8.2 The Gotham War
1.8.3 Mind Bomb
1.8.4 Dark Prisons
1.8.5 Absolute Power
1.8.6 All In
1.8.7 Mother June
1.8.8 The Return of Hush
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Abilities 2.2 Other Characteristics
2.1 Abilities
2.2 Other Characteristics
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Early Life
Main article: Batman Origins
Bruce Wayne was born to wealthy physician Dr. Thomas Wayne and his wife Martha , who were themselves members of the prestigious Wayne and Kane families of Gotham City , respectively.
When he was three, Bruce's mother Martha was expecting a second child to be named Thomas Wayne, Jr. However, because of her intent to find a school for the underprivileged in Gotham, she was targeted by the manipulative Court of Owls , who arranged for her to have a car accident. She and Bruce survived, but the accident forced Martha into premature labor, and the baby was lost. [ 2 ]
While on vacation to forget about these events, the Wayne Family butler, Jarvis Pennyworth was killed by one of the Court of Owls' Talons. A letter he'd written to his son Alfred , warning him away from the beleaguered Wayne family, was never delivered. As such, Alfred—who had been an actor at the Globe Theatre at the time [ 3 ] and a military medic before that, traveled to Gotham City to take up his father's place, serving the Waynes as butler. [ 4 ]
The Waynes' murder
As he grew older, his family's reputation made Bruce restless, and he began sneaking out of school to visit Gotham City, where he wouldn't be so easily recognized. [ 5 ] On one such outing, when he was ten years old, he was picked up by Officer Jim Gordon and his partner on their patrol. En route back to the station , Bruce witnessed Jim accepting a trench coat as a bribe from a tailor—though neither realized it was a bribe at the time—but Bruce would remember it as an indicator of Jim's character.
After his parents picked Bruce up at the police station, the Waynes went to see The Mark of Zorro at the Monarch Theater . When the Waynes were walking home after the movie, a mugger named Joe Chill attempted to rob them at gunpoint, and panicked, shooting both Thomas and Martha dead. [ 6 ]
Later Childhood
Following his parents' deaths, Bruce attempted to commit suicide with a razor blade. However, just before he went through with it, he realized that this wasn't what his parents would want, and it was at that moment Bruce vowed to spend the rest of his life warring on crime. [ 7 ]
Bruce became obsessed with the search for meaning in the loss of his parents. He thought perhaps the mythical Court of Owls was responsible, but he never found anything to prove it. [ 8 ]
Shortly after their deaths, Bruce became obsessed with using toy guns and killing the man who murdered his parents. Because of this, Alfred sent Bruce to an Arkham boys' rehabilitation home upstate where he first met Harvey Dent . The boys became good friends but wouldn't realize their identities until years later. [ 9 ]
In his youth, Bruce attended Gotham Academy . It was there that he dated Julie Madison , but his psychological issues with his parents' deaths ultimately led to the end of their relationship. One day, he was asked by a professor to answer a problem involving a projectile being fired at a target. This triggered Bruce to answer the question by burning the answer on the professor's front yard. [ 10 ]
As a pre-teen, Bruce began getting into fights with a kid who was bullying Bruce's classmates. Alfred eventually grew tired of Bruce's desire to solve his problems through aggression and told Bruce act strategically, rather than with his fists. Bruce interpreted this by locking the bully in the school boiler room and giving him poison ivy until the boy eventually changed schools. [ 11 ] Bruce was later expelled from Gotham Academy and began attending Roxbury Fielding Academy. [ 12 ]
Troubled by grief, Bruce found that he couldn't function the way he was, so he hired a homeless man to pretend to be Alfred to approve of the paperwork so that Bruce could erase his memory with electroshock therapy, but chose not to go through with it, and to use his pain as a motivator. [ 13 ] At the age of 18, he used his relationship with Erin McKillen [ 14 ] —a daughter of the Irish mob, and with whom he attended Roxbury Academy [ 15 ] —to locate Joe Chill, and learned that he had simply needed the money, and there was no deeper meaning to his parents' deaths. [ 16 ] During his final year as a student, Bruce participated in at least one underground fight and dated a young woman named Dana, who talked him out of becoming a police officer, noting how unsuited to the job he would be, and encouraged him to think on a larger scale. [ 11 ] He was also psychoanalyzed by Doctor Hugo Strange , who he exposed as a fraud.
Travels and Training
Fueled by the loss of his parents, Bruce began a global sojourn. He began in Paris, briefly training with the world's best fencer; he would best said swordsperson after two weeks of training. Sometime later, Bruce encountered the Grey Shadow , a French cat burglar of high renown. Though he initially intended to turn the Shadow in, after some conversation and consideration (and no small amount of teasing), he became her protégé. In the process of his training, the pair would rob the CEO of Sunrise Oil, Hubert Glonet , unaware that Hubert was the notorious serial killer known to the French public as 'The Foundling'. Bruce developed feelings for the Shadow, culminating in a kiss; however, the Shadow, who shared his attraction, rejected him as too young. Moments later, the pair would be interrupted by notorious manhunter Henri Ducard , who was hired by Alfred Pennyworth to track Bruce down. [ 17 ]
The trio worked together to take down the Foundling. They were successful, but the confrontation resulted in Henri becoming hospitalized. For his own good, the Shadow fired Bruce, though they parted amicably.
Bruce then approached Henri, seeking to learn the art of manhunting from the prolific manhunter; he accepted, and Bruce became his assistant. [ 18 ] Bruce also became close training partners with Ducard's son, Morgan . However, when Bruce discovered that Henri often killed his targets, he left. This caused Henri to send Morgan after him, but Bruce managed to defeat him, throwing him into Henri's office. [ 19 ] [ 20 ]
One of his earliest stops was in Tibet, where he trained in martial arts and sword fighting under Shaolin monks. [ 21 ]
Bruce studied under Giovanni Zatara in Las Vegas, struggling to master the basic precepts of stage magic. During this period, he became very close with Giovanni's daughter, Zatanna , with the pair striking up an attraction. Hoping to impress Bruce, Zatanna introduced Bruce to real, arcane magic. However, Zatara disagreed with this choice, and erased the memory of this discovery from Bruce's mind. [ 22 ]
After two months of searching, Bruce arrived at the Dojang of Master Kirigi on Paektu Mountain in North Korea. He was wordlessly denied entry by a sentry, who shoved him to the ground; over the next few nights, this process repeated violently until finally he was allowed entry. While training under Kirigi he became acquainted with another acolyte of Kirigi's, one who identified himself as Anton . They bonded over their shared desire to fight criminals, despite their differing motivations. "Anton" and Bruce, going by 'Jack', spent almost a year atop Paektu mountain training under Kirigi. [ 23 ]
Shortly after the arrival of a new crop of an aggressive, belligerent students sent by a "benefactor" of Kirigi's, Bruce left, leaving his training under Kirigi technically incomplete as a result of his refusal to learn the lethal 'Vibrating Palm' technique. On his way down the mountain, Bruce was attacked by these new students, assassins-in-training. Alone, he fought valiantly, but was on the verge of being overwhelmed until "Anton" arrived, and together, they fought off the attackers and resolved to train together moving forward. [ 23 ]
At the age of 19, Anton and Bruce learned how to race cars in life-or-death situations from Brazilian criminal, Don Miguel. While there, his break-lines were cut, an action he later suspected was the handiwork of his cohort. Bruce himself tricked Don Miguel into getting captured by police during his final lesson. [ 24 ]
Soon afterward, Bruce and Anton were apprehended in Moscow after staking out an FSB office trying to locate Avery Oblonsky, an ex-KGB freelance operative and held in prison for fourteen days. During their escape from imprisonment, it was revealed that the warden who had been keeping them captive was, in fact, a disguised Oblonsky, who agreed to train the pair in the art of disguise and manipulation. In the process, Wayne's true identity was revealed to Anton. [ 25 ]
After training with Oblonsky, Bruce and "Anton" travelled to the wilds of northern British Columbia , hunting down the world's greatest marksman, Luka Jungo , also known as "The Swiss Mark." The pair trained under Luka for several months. In the process, Luka made the pair that they would swear to never use firearms against other people. Luka, unsettled by Anton's behavior, confronted him, proclaiming him a killer. The confrontation resulted in Luka's death at Anton's hands, and the pair became very aware of the gulf between their motivations, coming to blows. Despite having a gun to Bruce's head, Anton could not bring himself to shoot Bruce, and parted ways. [ 26 ]
He was also trained in stealth by an unnamed master in the Hida Mountains, in Japan. [ 27 ]
At age 21, Bruce studied the ins and outs of technological gadgetry under the guidance of the brilliant inventor, Sergei Alexandrov . [ 28 ]
At the age of 22, Bruce travelled to the Himalayas to train with Shihan Matsuda , who taught him to fight with the katana. He soon struck up a romance with the sword-sharpener's daughter, Mio. Matsuda warned him against creating personal ties with others, and to embrace his darker side. Matsuda's wife, though encouraged it, and because of Bruce's feelings for her, he inadvertently let an assassin into the Matsuda household. In the following course of events, Bruce discovered that Mio had been hired by Matsuda's wife to seduce him and then kill Matsuda. Both women and Matsuda himself were gravely injured, but before he died, Matsuda warned him that death is what would come of fostering close personal relationships. [ 29 ]
At age 24, Bruce was training in Norway, and after 28 hours of fighting a new opponent each hour, Bruce's determination struck fear into all the Queen's men. [ 30 ] Bruce spent time with a nomadic people in the Nigerian desert enduring grueling training. It was during this time that Alfred attempted to contact him, but when Bruce received the phone call, he couldn't bring himself to answer. [ 31 ]
Sometime during his time abroad, Bruce also trained with Chu Chin Li and Tsunetomo , two martial arts masters in the Far East and was also arrested for illegal base jumping at Meru Peak. [ 5 ] He was also, at some point, trained by expert boxer (and former JSA member) Ted Grant . [ 32 ]
Towards the end of his travels, Bruce returned to study under Zatara once more. Over the course of his renewed studies, Bruce and Zatanna encountered a demon known as Shantoz, a being that would escape hell every twenty years to feast on the souls of those with broken hearts. This time, when the secret of genuine magic was revealed to Bruce, he was allowed to remember, and together the pair was eventually able to defeat the demon by using Bruce's trauma as bait. Despite the temptation, Bruce decided against learning true magic, unwilling to pay the price it would exact on his soul. [ 33 ] During this time, Bruce and Zatanna became inadvertently bonded through a miscast spell, and would spend the next few decades having regular meetings in order to contain the arcane chaos their mistake wrought. [ 34 ]
Throughout Bruce's training, he constantly crossed paths Minhkhoa Khan, the man he knew as Anton. Bruce and the man who would become Ghost-Maker became rivals, having fought on a few occasions due to their differing opinions on killing criminals. They crossed paths while seeking training in Dublin, Metropolis, and Morocco. [ 32 ] In Morocco, Khan killed their mentor Ouahbi, ostensibly in self-defense, like he did Luka. [ 35 ]
Bruce continued his travels, making a stop in Mexico, where a mysterious assailant slipped him psilocybin while he fought jaguars, and in Shanghai, where his rope was mysteriously cut, though he was rescued at the last minute by Skyspider , a thrill seeking urban explorer who had previously mentored him. He discovered that she had recently trained Minkkhoa Khan under the same fake name he'd used with Bruce, "Anton."
Suspecting Khan of attempting to kill him, Bruce pressed on, seeking out Doctor Daniel Captio , an expert mentalist who was capable of complete conscious control over both his brain and body. While under his tutelage, Bruce was able to learn control over his body, but was unable to control his emotions. Interested, Daniel tested him with falsified photos of the people he cared for, murdered. At that moment, an injured Minhkhoa arrived at the door of Captio's estate; Bruce accused Minhkhoa of both the murders and of previous attacks on Bruce himself in Rio De Janeiro, Mexico, and Shanghai; Minhkhoa had no idea what Bruce was talking about, and expressed regret at the deaths of Luka Jungo and Master Ouahbi. He revealed that he had been tracked and attacked as well, and had come to warn Bruce. [ 35 ]
Outside, Bruce confronted the mysterious assailant who had been tailing him across the world and who had attacked and grievously injured Minhkhoa: Harris Zuma , AKA 'The Still', a renowned assassin in the employ of Ra's al Ghul . They fought on the cliffside as a storm struck, and Bruce was able to channel his fury and love, overtaking Zuma. Zuma revealed that the loved ones Bruce saw dead in the photos were still alive, and that his employer, the Demon's Head, was offering them an invitation to train with him in the Crystal Hills of Abu Dhabi. Bruce then confronted Doctor Captio, realizing that he had doctored the photos that had enraged him so. After Minhkhoa recovered, the pair left Captio's manor together, determined to seek out Ra's al Ghul. [ 35 ]
They eventually made their way to Ra's al Ghul's crystal fortress in the heart of the Rub' Al Khali Desert, accepting his tutelage. During this period, he was introduced to Ra's daughter, Talia al Ghul , who assisted in the training of the pair. Ra's told the pair that he intended to change the world using the principles of "Lazarus," the supposed name of his organization, intending to build entirely self-sustained 'Lazarus Cities'. [ 36 ]
While training, despite his rejection of the Demon Head's principles, Al Ghul became very certain that Bruce would one day become the true heir to his ideals and organization. As such, he gifted him a small box, supposedly containing the eye of a god. [ 37 ]
Talia and Bruce became close during this time, but Bruce's distrust of her father's methods and goals resulted in the bond turning frosty. [ 36 ] Towards the conclusion of their training, Ra's revealed the truth of his intentions to Bruce and Minhkhoa, and made them duel for the right to replace Harris Zuma as second in command, the Demon's Hand. Bruce defeated Minkhoa, and Ra's allowed Zuma, Bruce's ostensible predecessor, to remain alive, requesting that he take the unconscious Minkhoa Khan from the Crystal Hills. He then declared Bruce to be the Demon's Heart, though Bruce did not remain with the organization [ 38 ] ; he recognized that their plans involved mass death, and planted explosives throughout the Crystal Hills, collapsing the structure. In the process, he fought Ra's, who defeated him; however, he was rescued by Minkhoa, who dragged him out of the collapsing cave system. Despite this, they parted ways, swearing that Minkhoa would never enter Gotham, and that Bruce would never enter any city Minkhoa set up shop in. [ 39 ] Before returning to Gotham, Bruce made one last stop in Argentina. While leaving to board his plane back to Gotham, Khoa made one last attempt to convince Bruce to give up on Gotham and join him in stopping crime around the world. Bruce refused and the two agreed to continue with their previous agreement. [ 40 ]
After seven long years of absence, Bruce finally returned to Gotham [ 41 ] at the age of 25. [ 42 ] To formally end his training, Bruce climbed to the top of Wayne Tower and did a base-jump off the top, resulting in a concussion, road rash, as well as a dislocated shoulder and elbow. [ 43 ]
Early Heroic Career
In the original New 52 continuity, Zero Year was a year long event. However, following changes to the timeline due to Rebirth, Bruce's exploits with the Red Hood Gang and Riddler were shortened to last over the course of a few weeks in order for stories from the New Earth continuity to fit in, such as Year One and The Man Who Laughs.
Batman Begins
With only his mission in mind and no care for his legacy as a Wayne, Bruce moved himself out of Wayne Manor and into a brownstone on Park Row from which he based his early attempts to infiltrate the Red Hood Gang after only six weeks back. [ 44 ] Despite trying to remain off the grid, Bruce's uncle Philip Kane had kept tabs on him and had also gained control of Wayne Enterprises in Bruce's absence, hiring strategist Edward Nygma , who advised him to have Bruce killed if he wouldn't play ball. [ 5 ]
Philip outed Bruce's return to the media. When Bruce refused to return to the company while his uncle was selling weapons, Nygma advised Philip to have Bruce killed, and the Red Hood Gang soon attempted just that by blowing up Bruce's brownstone with him inside. [ 28 ] Injured, Bruce crawled back to Wayne Manor, where Alfred reaffirmed his support for him and bandaged his wounds. [ 30 ]
In the original New 52 continuity, Bruce decided to take on the appearance of a bat following this attack; however, following subsequent continuity changes, this was adjusted to align with previous continuities. [ 45 ]
During an early outing, while disguised as a veteran, Bruce encountered Selina Kyle on the streets of Gotham; at the time, she was operating as a prostitute. They came to blows, and Selina would later remember this as their first meeting, though Bruce would disagree for semantic reasons. [ 46 ] During this outing, Bruce would be grievously injured, and was nursed back to health by Alfred yet again. Afterwards, he would decide to take on the guise of a bat, presenting the concept to Alfred the following morning. Alfred rejected it at first, but Bruce was persistent. Over the next few days, they assembled the suit, and on the following Saturday, Bruce made his first patrol as the Batman, attracting the attention of journalists, who chronicled what they knew of the mysterious vigilante in a front-page article in the Arkham Post the day after. [ 45 ]
Soon afterward, industrial tycoon David Lambert was murdered, and Bruce would investigate; this would become his first real investigation as Batman—an adventure he would later recall as the Case of the Chemical Syndicate. [ 47 ]
The fall of Red Hood One
Using the fact that his return was outed publicly to his advantage, Bruce called a press conference outside the ACE Chemical plant to expose the Red Hood Gang's plans to the media. The gang attempted to disrupt it, and inside the plant, Bruce used a blackout to debut the Batsuit . Through blackmail, Philip was recruited into the Red Hood Gang, and when he failed to kill the Batman, he was shot dead. In fighting with Red Hood One , Batman knocked the man into a vat of chemicals, and he was thought dead.
The Zero Year
Later, Nygma returned to detonate an EMP blast that left the entire city in the dark. [ 42 ] Commissioner Loeb declared the Batman a vigilante criminal as Bruce began investigating a series of murders committed by a disgruntled Waynetech employee, while building a jammer to prevent another EMP attack when power was restored. [ 48 ] The ex-employee, Dr. Karl Helfern was challenging enough that Batman allied himself begrudgingly with Jim Gordon, and together they learned that Helfern was the Riddler's pawn. [ 49 ] Their plan to defeat both men failed, and the jammer was destroyed such that when the power was restored, the Riddler stole complete control of the power grid, shutting it down and flooding the city. [ 50 ]
In the following months, the city fell into ruin, with the Riddler nightly challenging the citizens to best him with a riddle in order to earn back civilization. [ 51 ] Allying with Jim Gordon and Lucius Fox , Batman planned to locate the Riddler by piggybacking his signal during the challenge. [ 10 ] The plan failed, but Batman managed to find the Riddler in the place they'd first met, and best him in a battle of wits, both restoring power and saving the city from an inevitable air-strike. Afterwards, Bruce and Lucius began rebuilding Wayne Enterprises. [ 52 ]
In the original New 52 continuity, Jim Gordon was then immediately advanced to the role of commissioner; however, following subsequent continuity changes, Jim Gordon remains Captain as late as the Joker's debut. [ 53 ]
While the city was recovering from the Riddler's attack, Batman encountered the first Mister Bloom , Daryl Gutierrez .
Bruce would later come into conflict with the Falcone Crime Family .
Cormac Dodge
At some later point, Batman came into conflict with Cormac Dodge , who became the supervillain known as the Escape Artist. Cormac, a master technologist, was able to hack into the early Batcave 's systems and learn a great deal about Bruce's investigations. Using this information, Cormac put Batman into increasingly diabolical manufactured scenarios.
Cormac recruited the young, homeless Anita Jean as his prodigy but refused to let her have friends or pets. Seeing her loneliness, Batman made her an offer, and she became an insider in Cormac's operation. Eventually, Anita and Batman cornered Cormac atop the Gotham Incinerator Plant. Cormac threatened to reveal Bruce's identity to the world if he was arrested, claiming that Bruce and Anita would lose everything if he went down. Panicking, Anita shot Cormac. Bruce intensely reprimanded her, not realizing her fragile state, and Anita subsequently appeared to commit suicide, though Bruce would learn years later that she survived. [ 54 ]
Meeting Superman
Bruce first encountered the Kryptonian superhero Superman when Jax-Ur came to Gotham. In order to escape the Phantom Zone , Jax-Ur began kidnapping Gotham citizens and he forced the Riddler to lure Superman to the city. Batman shared information with Superman, but refused to work together until Alfred disappeared. Concerned for his father figure, Bruce revealed his identity to Superman and the two partnered directly. They tracked Jax-Ur and Riddler to the Gotham City Harbor, where a trapped was sprung and Bruce was sent to the Phantom Zone. [ 55 ]
Year Two
The War of Jokes and Riddles
Gordon lights the Bat-Signal for the first time
Not long after the Zero Year, Batman had his first confrontation with the resurfaced Red Hood One, now going by the name " the Joker ." The clown had attempted to poison the Gotham Reservoir, only to be stopped by the Bat. [ 56 ]
Having created a prototypical version of it during the Zero Year, Jim Gordon took the risk of placing a Bat-Signal on the roof of the GCPD precinct. [ 44 ] Batman for a while worked closely with Jim Gordon and Harvey Dent in a war on organized crime until Dent was scarred with acid by the criminal Erin McKillen. [ 57 ]
Forced to choose a side
Approximately a year after his initial defeat, the Riddler broke out of prison and spurred a war between himself and the Joker, who had lost the ability to laugh, in what would be called "the War of Jokes and Riddles."
With each side recruiting all the villains they could to fight for them, the city was turned into a war zone for weeks, forcing Batman to choose a side to work with in order for the casualties to stop. Batman begrudgingly chose the Riddler and meticulously took out all of Joker's forces until only the clown was left. When Batman predictably betrayed the Riddler, Nygma surrendered and revealed that he orchestrated the entire war in an attempt to solve the riddle of how to make the Joker laugh again. Furious that Riddler caused the deaths of so many innocent people for something so trivial, Batman lost control and attempted to stab Nygma in the face with a kitchen knife, only to be stopped by the Joker himself—this event becoming one of Batman's greatest failures. [ 58 ]
At some point after this, Catwoman, the Riddler, Killer Croc, the Penguin, the Clock King, and a mysterious figure known as 'The Help' became embroiled in an attempt to steal a mysterious object given to Bruce on the last day of his training by Ra's al Ghul. [ 59 ]
Further Adventures
The First Robin
Batman and Robin
Around this time, Bruce took in young circus acrobat Dick Grayson after his parents were murdered by the gangster Tony Zucco . Without knowing Bruce's secret, Dick would sneak out of Wayne Manor at night, hunting Zucco, and the Batman would be there to protect him every time. Eventually, when Bruce was ready, he finally revealed his identity to his ward, but, at that point, Dick had figured it out for himself. With the common goal of justice, the pair began fighting crime as Batman and Robin . [ 60 ] Bruce would later admit that Dick saved his soul, believing he saved him from being consumed by rage. [ 61 ]
Soon after Robin's debut, they caught Catwoman as she attempted a heist aboard a boat in Gotham's harbor, disguised as an old woman. Bruce considered this to be their first true meeting, despite their previous encounters, because this was the first time they'd met as their fully realized selves. [ 62 ]
At this point, the Scarecrow became an active criminal and gassed the Dynamic Duo with his fear toxin for the first time.
In one specific mission, Batman and Robin tracked Scarecrow's international operations by following him to Prague . Batman realized that the Scarecrow was dealing with a child trafficker named Mother , who planned to use his experimental "trauma toxin" to create more traumatized children to abduct. Bruce kept this information secret from Dick, convincing him the mission was exclusively to capture Scarecrow. Bruce contacted Mother, pretending to be interested in purchasing a replacement Robin, but the ruse was unsuccessful. Mother escaped and remained dormant for years. [ 63 ]
During Dick's career as Robin, the tone of many of Batman's adventures changed, and many of Batman's reoccurring foes softened, becoming less lethal; Jim Gordon described the phenomenon as Robin's attitude 'infecting' them.
Early in Dick's career as Robin, before Bruce fully trusted Superman, the trio teamed up to take down the Penguin , who had recruited the extra-dimensional Thunderers of Qward to act as heavies on the advice of Lex Luthor . [ 64 ]
Zur-En-Arrh
Following an encounter with Professor Milo , Bruce seemingly hallucinated a vivid encounter with an alien Batman called the Batman of Zur-En-Arrh . The experience terrified him, and, believing he needed a check against mental control and attacks, he set about constructing an alternate personality that would take control in the event of such danger, the Batman of Zur-En-Arrh. While building this alternate self, the Joker returned, and, worse, returned to his old ways, murdering a number of Weltamix Pharmaceuticals security guards before taking the company's chemists hostage. [ 65 ]
The Joker who had lost his trademark mirth, was trying to force the company's chemists to create a concoction that would cheer him up. Unfortunately, all of their anti-depressants would take weeks to take effect, something he found unsatisfactory. Batman, his backup personality still unstable and unfinished, confronted Joker in the midst of his own hallucinations. During the fight, the alternate personality briefly seized control and attempted to simply kill the Joker. Though he retook control and stopped himself from killing the Joker, feeling that buried beneath the Joker, there was still somebody who could be healed, it became clear to him that his back-up personality didn't possess his moral lines. As he finished constructing Zur-En-Arrh, he made sure to implement his specific moral code within the personality. [ 66 ]
Some time later, his fragmentary memory of the Zur-En-Arrh encounter inspired him to add the iconic 'yellow circle' to his Batsuit, enclosing the Bat-Symbol. [ 67 ]
Founding the Justice League
Bruce was among the founding members of the Justice League . While the team's actual first meeting is debated, Bruce helped defeat Darkseid's invasion and participated in the subsequent battle with the alien Appellaxians . The heroes, inspired by their victory, formed a team, christening it the Justice League, although Bruce only joined them officially some short time after their proper establishment. One of their earliest foes was Starro the Conqueror . [ 68 ] [ 69 ]
Following an encounter between Barry Allen and Jay Garrick , the Flashes of two heroic generations, the Justice Society of America fully came out of retirement to defeat the Crime Champions alongside their League sucessors. The two teams began to act together from this point forward to battle any threats too great for a single band of heroes, such as the Earth 3 Crime Syndicate , which included an evil version of Batman known as Owlman . [ 69 ]
The Adventures Continue
At some point, Bruce came into conflict with Ra's al Ghul. He fell in love with his daughter Talia, [ 70 ] and unknowingly fathered a son with her.
A group including Carter Hall erased Bruce's memories of a critical event; this would remain unknown to him for many years. [ 71 ]
While trailing a low-level costumed criminal to Singapore , Bruce and Dick encountered Bruce's former rival, the Ghostmaker. Per their previous agreement, Batman and Robin reluctantly left Singapore, knowing that Ghostmaker would capture the criminal and see to it that he was extradited back to Gotham.
Batman once took Dick on a mission with the Justice League so that the boy could understand his worth as part of a superhero team. Even though Robin was outclassed for most of the mission, Batman assured the boy that, in the future, he wouldn't just be a member of the League—he was bound to be its leader. [ 72 ]
Batgirl
Sometime later, Barbara Gordon had caught Batman's attention and was recruited into his crusade as Batgirl . At some point, the pair would face off against Catman atop the El Payaso Candy Company building. [ 73 ]
World's Finest
Over the course of their careers, Superman and Batman and became close allies, despite some initial distrust and the stark difference between their methods and personalities. They would frequently operate as partners, a pairing referred to by some as 'The World's Finest'. At some point, they fought the tyrant Mongul MDCCXC together.
One such outing was prompted by the unexpected team-up of the Gotham-based villain Poison Ivy and the cyborg Metallo under the influence of the Devil Nezha . During the encounter, Metallo injected Superman with a sample of Red Kryptonite , causing Superman to undergo a series of rapid and horrifying transformations. Batman contacted the Doom Patrol , who rapidly arrived on the scene. Luckily, Negative Man was able to incapacitate Superman. [ 74 ] The group was able to purge the Red Kryptonite from Superman; Niles Caulder then identified the insignia on the vial that had been used to inject Superman as belonging to the Devil Nezha (having recently recoverd Nezha's sword from General Zahl themselves, and recounted the legend of Nezha's creation.
Simultaneously, several villains attacked other heroes, including the Flash , Wonder Woman , Green Lantern , and the new hero Captain Marvel . Splitting up, Robin teamed with Supergirl , and the pair traveled  in time in order to contact the House of Ji , who had defeated and imprisoned Nezha in antiquity. Superman and Batman traveled to Philadelphia in order to rescue Billy Batson from Felix Faust [ 75 ] Despite some struggle, they were able to defeat Faust and rescue Billy before moving on to aid other heroes.
The pair then went to rescue Wonder Woman and the Flash, who under attack by Doctor Alchemy and Mirror Master respectively. They defeated both villains by tricking Doctor Alchemy into attacking Mirror Master's Mirror, only to be captured by Green Lantern, who had fallen under Nezha's sway. [ 76 ] However, the pair was able to escape by overriding Hal Jordan's compromised willpower. The ring, seeing them as one individual and amplified by the ambient magic produced by Nezha, fused Batman and Superman into a single composite being . [ 77 ] Nezha did not relent, though, and sent the heroes Black Canary , Firestorm , Martian Manhunter , Kid Flash , Wonder Girl , and Red Tornado after them. However, the fused pair was able to force Nezha towards his far-away tomb with the assistance of the returned Supergirl. Realizing that Nezha was weak to modern technologies, the group managed to imprison Nezha within his tomb once again with the help of a Phantom Zone Projector . [ 78 ]
Afterwards, Superman and Batman travelled back in time to the year 1892 to rescue Robin, who had inadvertently become lost in the timestream during his trip to learn from the House of Ji. There, they participated in a circus show undercover, and helped Robin solve an a murder before the trio returned to the present. [ 79 ]
Some time later, a rift opened up in the sky, and through it, David Sikela arrived, the last survivor from an unknown Earth elsewhere in them multiverse. They quickly realized the unique properties of David's biology gave him powers under Earth-0's sun, and brought him to Kandor to be examined by the Kandorian scientist Kim-Da . While there, Kim-Da fabricated David a costume inspired by Hel-Oz, an ancient Kryptonian hero. After a brief but traumatic excursion to Gotham, Robin took David to the secret base of the Teen Titans , where he introduced the teen to his friends and partners. [ 80 ]
For a time, The Boy Thunder worked as Superman's sidekick; eventually, however, it would not last. After several adventures in which he helped subdue an earthquake, battle Doctor Phosphorus, fight Sinestro, and save the city from Atomic Skull, things rapidly fell apart as David was directly targeted. The Key attacked Gotham, using a psychotropic compound to effectively lock all of its inhabitants where they were when the attack began, including Robin and Batman, who were stuck in the Batcave. Despite an anxiety attack, David was able to help, rescuing trapped miners. Luckily, based on Batman's notes, Blue Beetle was able to disperse an antidote to the chemical. Unbeknownst to them, the Key was working with the Joker, who had larger plans. [ 81 ]
David continued to study alongside Superman and Batman, struggling with anger issues and the trauma of losing his parents and world, later admitting to Superman that he believed himself to be responsible for his parents' death. Their heart-to-heart was interrupted by the next stage of the Joker and the Key's plan—using Angle Man's Angler to open a door directly from the bottom of the Gotham River into the city. Tragically, the pair used this distraction as an opportunity to kidnap David. They tortured David as Superman and his allies desperately searched for their lost friend. Eventually, they found him, and in the process of freeing him, David nearly killed the Joker. In the aftermath, Superman briefly considered using Kryptonian technology designed by Kim-Da to depower David, but decided against it.
However, the Key was not yet done with David. He summoned a motley crew of villains into the Fortress of Solitude , including Bag o' Bones , Acid Master , Doctor Phoenix, the Abominable Snowman , Ferlin Nyxly , and Zebra-Man . In the chaos, he activated the Bleedship that brought David to Earth-0, seeing it as the key to the multiverse. Resultingly, David was pulled out of Earth-0, sent to an unknown world in the Multiverse—but not before a tearful goodbye with Superman, Batman, and Robin. [ 82 ]
Jason Todd and Tim Drake
Bruce, convinced that Dick was wasting his potential by remaining a sidekick to Batman, decided that Dick needed a push out of the nest. To that end, leading up to and on the day of Dick's eighteenth birthday, Bruce began implementing increasingly strict and draconian rules, criticizing Dick more often, and generally attempting to push him away so that he might find himself as an independent person. As a result, Dick Grayson quit his role as Robin and became Nightwing .
Sometime after that, Batman caught orphan Jason Todd trying to steal prescription drugs from Dr. Leslie Thompkins . Believing that Todd had the potential to turn over a new leaf, Wayne offered him the vacant position of Robin and, when he accepted, trained him for months. However, soon after Jason had become active as a vigilante, he was lured into chasing a woman he believed to be his mother to the Middle East —a setup by the Joker—and killed before Batman could save him. [ 83 ] The Joker loved the pain he was able to inflict on Batman through acts like killing Todd and paralyzing Barbara Gordon . Daniel Captio would also allege that everything that Joker did was part of a plan to again unleash Zur-En-Arrh . [ 84 ]
A legacy of Robins
After the death of Jason Todd, Batman became increasingly violent and reckless, which worried a boy named Tim Drake . Tim, who had deduced Dick Grayson's identity as Nightwing, tried to convince Dick to return as Robin once again in order to rein in Batman's rage. When Dick refused, Tim put on a Robin costume to aid Batman and Nightwing in a fight against Two-Face. Tim was of vital help in that fight, and Batman agreed to train Tim as the third Robin. [ 85 ] Tim would later leave his identity as Robin to become Red Robin and lead the Teen Titans. [ 86 ]
Broken by Bane
In an effort to take control of Gotham City, Bane ran Batman ragged, and then broke his back. [ 87 ] Sometime later, Ra's al Ghul attempted to eradicate the population of Gotham City using the Ebola Gulf-A Virus, and was thwarted by the Batman. [ 88 ]
Over the years, Batman compiled detailed contingency files on many of his allies in the Justice League, fearing the potential damage they could inflict on the planet if controlled. The files were eventually stolen by Ra's al Ghul, who used them to target the league to catastrophic effect. Though the League was able to defeat Ra's, they were shaken by the experience and afterwards, for his perceived betrayal, Batman was voted out of the league.
Though he told Superman that the contingency for a rogue Batman was the Justice League, this was a deception [ 89 ] to even Bruce himself. [ 90 ] In truth, Batman's mental backup against psychological attacks, the Batman of Zur-En-Arrh, created an anti-Batman contingency in the form of Failsafe , [ 89 ] a robot that would be activated if Batman ever willingly took a life. [ 91 ] After creating Failsafe, the Batman of Zur-En-Arrh erased his memory of how to defeat the contingency. [ 89 ] Meanwhile, Bruce himself remained blissfully unaware of the robot's existence. [ 90 ]
Black Adam and Khandaq
Black Adam formed a group of heroes including Atom Smasher who entered Khandaq and deposed dictator Asim Muhunnad , despite the efforts of the Justice Society.
His newly reclaimed kingdom was not entirely willing to submit to his rule; the northern tribes built a resistance, targeting a new desalination plant in the Ahk-Ton Desert . He sent Atom Smasher to put down this rebellion with a show of force but instructed him not to harm the rebels. Later that day, he was confronted by Batman, who had infiltrated his palace with the intent to depose him. Out of respect, Adam returned to his human form, wanting to fight Batman on equal ground. Batman underestimated Adam, who fought him to a standstill using martial arts techniques only one with an extraordinarily long life could master. Forcing a pause, Adam offered to grant Batman a portion of his power, so that he could watch over Gotham for centuries, like Adam would with Khandaq.
Batman refused, and soon they were interrupted by the attacking rebels. Furious at Batman for distracting him, he renewed his attack, only to realize that he needed Batman's help. While Batman helped the palace staff and the injured within get to safety, Adam engaged the rebels with extreme prejudice. [ 71 ]
Batman and Son
Bruce's longtime paramour, Talia Al Ghul returned to Gotham and introduced the Dark Knight to his biological son, Damian , whom she had grown in a lab and trained to lead the League of Assassins from birth. She intended for Bruce to train their son in the ways she could not, and in the hope of curbing his homicidal tendencies, he took on the boy as Robin to keep a close eye on him. [ 92 ]
Not long after taking on Damian, Bruce was seemingly killed by Darkseid, [ citation needed ] having in fact been sent back in time. While Nightwing eventually took on the role of Batman in his stead, training Damian as Robin, [ citation needed ] Bruce fought his way forward through time. [ citation needed ] and upon his return, announced that he had been privately funding the Batman, and declared the creation of Batman Incorporated .
New 52
The Court of Owls
The Court of Owls watches over Gotham
While Bruce Wayne revealed plans to revolutionize the city of Gotham, the GCPD uncovered a body with ties to the legend of the Court of Owls and a warning of an attempt against Bruce's life. [ 93 ] Batman believed the Court of Owls were just a legend, but after taking a meeting with an interested business partner in Lincoln March , Bruce was nearly killed by an assassin dressed like an owl in Wayne Tower . [ 94 ] While investigating the assassination attempt, Batman became trapped in an underground labyrinth where the very much real Court of Owls held him for eight days and attempted to drive him insane. Despite this, he managed to break his way into an underground portion of the Gotham River [ 95 ] and was found and revived from cardiac arrest by Harper Row . [ 96 ]
The Talons attack Wayne Manor
Urged on by Batman's interference, the Court of Owls elected to resurrect all of their undead Talons from over a century of assassinations, in order to kill off several prominent Gothamites and regain full control of Gotham City. [ 96 ] A swarm of assassins attacked Bruce Wayne at his home, but he was able to fend them off using an emergency robot-suit in the Batcave. [ 97 ]
After tracking the Court of Owls back to their hideout, Batman found all its members dead—poisoned by their food. Following clues to the ruins of a mental hospital, Batman learned that Lincoln March, his former business partner, was behind the betrayal within the Court. March believed himself to be Bruce's Wayne's younger brother, Thomas Wayne, Jr., [ 2 ] and that, when he was a boy, he had been taken in by the Court and raised to believe Martha Wayne was his mother. March grew to resent Bruce and took the role of King of the Owls to win control of the city for himself and to kill Bruce. In their encounter, Lincoln March escaped, leading Bruce to assume the Court of Owls would one day return. [ 4 ]
At that same time, a murderous vigilante called NoBody began attempting to win Bruce's son's loyalty away from him, encouraging him to break with Batman's no-kill policy. He soon realized that this man was Morgan Ducard, with whom he had trained in man-hunting some years ago. [ 98 ] When Damian declined to join him, NoBody turned on him, and Batman was forced to save him. In the resulting battle, it was Damian who made the final blow and killed NoBody, [ 99 ] causing his father to worry if he'd ever be able to train him not to perpetuate the cycle of violence. [ 100 ]
Death of the Family
Having waited for nearly a year in hiding, the Joker reappeared at the GCPD Headquarters and killed several officers to signal his return to Batman, and to retrieve his face from the evidence locker, which he had cut off and left behind before his disappearance. [ 101 ] The Joker then threatened to recreate one of his first recorded murders with Gotham's Mayor, but he killed all of the guards outside the Mayor's office instead, leaving disturbing frowns instead of the trademark Joker smiles on their faces. Seeing a pattern in Joker's twisted recreations of past crimes, Batman went to the ACE Chemical building, where a distraction provided by a reluctant Harley Quinn allowed the Joker to go to Wayne Manor and attack Alfred. [ 102 ]
The Joker returns to destroy the Bat-Family
Once free, Batman returned to the Manor to find a cassette tape revealing that Alfred had been kidnapped and tortured. Confiding in Nightwing, Batman asked him to keep Alfred's kidnapping a secret, insisting that the Joker had not yet deduced his identity. Meeting next at the Gotham Reservoir, the Joker claimed that he did know everyone's identities and promised to kill each of the allies who had made Batman weak within 72 hours. [ 56 ]
Bruce's allies compelled him to admit that after his second encounter with the Joker, he had found one of the Joker's cards in the Batcave but had never believed that his identity was compromised. Insisting that his allies remain safe in the cave, Batman followed a lead to Arkham Asylum, where he learned that the Joker had taken over without being noticed. [ 103 ] There, Batman discovered that the Joker has renovated and rearranged the building into a kind of castle, of which Batman was King, and he was Jester. The only way to find out what happened to his kidnapped allies, whom the Joker had captured in the interim, was to go along with the skit the madman put together and electrocute himself in his hot-wired "throne." [ 104 ]
Batman woke at a dinner table in the Batcave surrounded by his allies, all with bandaged faces. Removing the lids from the dinner platters in front of them, the Joker revealed each of their faces. After discovering that the bandages and severed faces were a fake-out, Batman chased down the Joker, who chose to fall into a chasm rather than allow Batman to reveal either of their identities and spoil his fantasy. Despite everyone being alive and well, Bruce's insistence on keeping secrets the Joker's taunts drove a wedge between he and his family. [ 105 ]
The Demon Star & Gotham's Most Wanted
Talia's conflict with Batman leaves their son caught in the middle
Armed with the League of Assassins ' power, Leviathan began taking over the city of Gotham, and in an effort to gain more information, Batman took on the identity of Matches Malone to infiltrate the crime ring. He was, however, betrayed to Leviathan and sentenced to death, requiring Damian—who had been grounded in the Batcave, to defy his father's wishes to save him. [ 106 ]
Batman was captured yet again by Man-Bat Commandos and put in a death trap by Talia, who had taken over Wayne Tower in the meantime. Against Batman's wishes, Alfred allowed Damian to leave the Batcave, once again, and help his father. [ 107 ] While Batman escaped his death trap, Damian faced the villainous Leviathan agent the Heretic alone. Though he fought well, Damian was no match for it and he was skewered on the Heretic's blade, perishing. [ 108 ]
Damian is killed by the Heretic
Thwarted in avenging his son, Bruce was thrown from the Tower, and later held a small, private funeral for Damian, even as his city was overrun by Leviathan and the Mayor declared him a menace, forcing Wayne Enterprises to cut funding to Batman Incorporated. [ 109 ]
Borrowing the Suit of Sorrows to face Talia and the Heretic, Batman transformed himself into a bat-creature [ 110 ] After Batman pummeled the Heretic and discovered with disgust that he was a clone of Damian, the Heretic escaped Batman only to be executed by Talia for failing to follow her orders. [ 111 ]
Batman and Talia came to a final confrontation in the Batcave, with the woman forcing him to choose between taking her life or giving his life along with his city—with the trick being that she had already poisoned him. In a bid for Batman's life, Wingman offered the Oroboro device Talia sought, as a distraction, as the headmistress of Spyral shot her in the head, freeing the city of Leviathan's grasp.
In the aftermath, Bruce Wayne was arrested, but charges were dropped. Upon his return to the manor, he and Alfred discovered that the corpses of both Damian and Talia had been dug up and stolen by Ra's al Ghul. [ 112 ]
Requiem for Damian
Batman mourns Damian
Damian's death left Bruce an emotional wreck, [ 113 ] compounded by the fact that his romantic interest, Natalya Trusevich had been murdered by the Mad Hatter when he allowed her to get close to him. [ 114 ] He began going through the five stages of grief, beginning with denial. Bruce began alienating his family but, after spending time with each of them however, Bruce began to accept that he had lost a son, and that he was not completely responsible, which allowed him to see that Alfred, too, had blamed himself and been going through pain. [ 115 ]
While attempting to recover from his grief, Batman was faced with the threat of The Wrath —a cop-killing arms dealer who had a vendetta against the GCPD, but soon defeated him. [ 116 ]
Forever Evil
In the hopes of ridding the world of evil, Pandora tried to have members of the Justice League open Pandora's Box for her, believing that their virtuousness would prevent the calamity that occurred when she opened it. [ 117 ] Unbeknownst to her, a secret organization was using her as a pawn in a ploy to have the three Justice Leagues come into conflict. The leagues split up in order to discover their own solutions to the puzzle of Pandora's Box. [ 118 ] Batman headed the team who believed that there was a scientific explanation for the box and its apparent effect on Superman. [ 119 ] Upon their eventual convergence upon the box, the Leagues discovered that it was a doorway to another world, from which the Crime Syndicate emerged, and imprisoned the majority of the Justice Leagues within the Firestorm Matrix . [ 120 ]
Batman puts on the Sinestro Corps ring
Only Batman and Catwoman evaded the Syndicate's imprisonment and, after bringing a critically injured Cyborg to S.T.A.R. Labs for repair, learned that Nightwing's secret identity had been revealed by the Syndicate. Together, Batman and Catwoman decided to seek him out and rescue him from imprisonment. [ 121 ] While searching for more resources in a Wayne Enterprises storage facility, Bruce and Selina encountered Lex Luthor and his followers, who were also prepared to combat the Syndicate. Their confusion at Batman's survival was smothered by the arrival of Power Ring . Hoping to counter him, Batman donned a Sinestro Corps Ring , only to have it removed and destroyed. [ 122 ] Fortunately, Sinestro , himself was drawn by the ring's energy, and killed Power Ring, suggesting that Batman join the Sinestro Corps , if ever he had the opportunity to wear a yellow ring again. [ 123 ]
After being forced to follow Lex Luthor's lead, begrudgingly, the pair discovered Nightwing trapped within an Apokoliptian device called the Murder Machine, deep within the ruins of the Justice League Satellite . Dick warned, though, that the device he was strapped to was synced with his heart rate, such that they would either blow up with the device, or they would have to kill him. Despite Dick's begging, Bruce refused to leave him. More decisively, Lex chose to suffocate Dick until his heart stopped, buying them the time to get him out of the machine and then resuscitate him. [ 124 ] He had, in fact, given Dick a pill that would stop his heart temporarily, requiring a shot of adrenaline before brain death. Once Dick was revived, he, Batman, and Catwoman escaped to seek out the remainder of the Justice League. With a plan to use Wonder Woman's Lasso of Truth to pull the League out of the Firestorm Matrix and Steve Trevor out of action though, Martian Manhunter appointed Batman to be the one to wield the Lasso, because of his connection to Wonder Woman. Using it, he saved the imprisoned heroes while Lex and his allies defeated the Crime Syndicate.
Afterwards, despite his closeness with Catwoman, Batman insisted that they could not start a romance together and returned home with Dick. Having been presumed dead, Batman offered him an opportunity to take advantage of his compromised identity by joining Spyral. In the meantime, Gotham had become a war zone between the inmates of Arkham Asylum and the inmates of Blackgate Penitentiary the latter of whom were led by Bane. [ 125 ] As victor, Bane claimed the mantle of the Bat for himself, requiring Batman to wrest it back from him. When Bane was safely imprisoned in Arkham, Bruce Wayne promised funds to improve the asylum's security and to the city's restoration. [ 126 ]
The Big Burn
Soon after taking control of the city again, Batman experienced a blast from the past when Erin McKillen returned to Gotham to meet with the other crime families to take back the city from the "freaks." McKillen's return caused a conflict with Two-Face, who received his famous scars from McKillen. After Batman managed to stop the two from killing each other, McKillen was arrested, her plan thwarted, and Two-Face, disillusioned with his life, shot himself through the head. [ 127 ]
Also, around this time, Batman and his allies were mind controlled by Scarecrow and a group of Batman's other psychologically focused foes into believing they were living in Gothtopia , an idyllic version of Gotham. However, Batman broke free of the control before his allies did, and, not realizing the world they were living in was fake, they targeted him for apparently losing his mind. The Bat successfully stopped the Scarecrow and brought his friends back to reality.
Batman Eternal
When a mysterious malefactor came to Gotham City with a yearlong plot to destroy Batman's life, phase one of the mastermind's scheme involved framing Commissioner Gordon for the murders of a derailed train car full of people, which Batman swore to exonerate him for. Simultaneously, the mastermind invited former Gotham mob boss Carmine Falcone back from his refuge in Hong Kong to initiate a gang war with the Penguin, again to add another conflict on Batman's hands. However, despite the corrupt replacement Commissioner Forbes' interference, Batman, with the help of the GCPD, captured the two gang leaders, seemingly putting their war to an end. [ 128 ]
Arkham Asylum is destroyed
While hunting for Hush , a criminal who was hired to participate in the real mastermind's plan, Batman had his first—albeit indirect—encounter with the Spoiler , who used him to save her from assassin Eduardo Flamingo who had been after her because she knew something about the secret of the attack on Gotham. [ 129 ]
Another part of the plot to wear down Batman was to resurrect the evil cult leader Deacon Blackfire in Arkham Asylum, but this plan was (mostly) foiled by Batwing and Jim Corrigan . However, the building of Arkham Asylum was destroyed in the process, setting its inmates loose in Gotham. [ 130 ] When Batman finally managed to catch Hush, it was too late—Batman had been distracted so long that the real conductor had totally cleaned out all of Batman's secret gadget caches and sold them to his enemies. [ 131 ] While still searching for who was behind this complicated conspiracy, Batman set his sights on Ra's al Ghul who, also, was another red herring. [ 132 ]
Batman's allies rally around him
Upon Bruce discovered that while he'd been distracted chasing down leads, the city was on fire, and its infrastructure had been turned against the citizens. He then, at last, received an invitation back to Beacon Tower, to watch the end of everything he cared about. When he arrived, the one who met him there was the Cluemaster . [ 133 ] However, despite all the Cluemaster's taunting and explanations as to how he pulled the scheme over on Bruce, he was unexpectedly murdered by the one who had really been behind it all—Lincoln March—the man who believes himself to be Bruce's younger brother. [ 134 ] In their battle, Bruce found himself too weak to fight, but was bolstered when Jim Gordon called on the entire city to take on the role of Batman and be heroes for the sake of their own city. Soon, Batman's allies rallied around him, and it was Spoiler who beat March down—though he escaped into the sewers, only to be caught by the Court of Owls.
Following Arkham Asylum's destruction, Batman allowed Wayne Manor to be the temporary home to its inmates, and even went into the new asylum undercover as the dead man "Jack Shaw" to investigate a series of murders. Despite solving the mystery, and having the opportunity to get his home back, Bruce let the city keep the Manor until they were able to erect a permanent replacement in the wake of the recent attack on Gotham. [ 135 ]
Robin Rises
Eventually, Batman decided at last to begin the search for Ra's al Ghul and the stolen bodies of Damian and Talia. When Batman had finally tracked down Ra's and successfully defeated him, Damian's sarcophagus was stolen by Glorious Godfrey and taken back to Apokolips . Ignoring the League's dissent, he snuck onto the Satellite to steal a specialized Batsuit designed to help him survive against the threat of Apokolips. [ 136 ]
Damian is resurrected at last
While Batman fought his way to Glorious Godfrey on Apokolips, his family decided that they would not allow him to fight this battle alone and kidnapped Cyborg, forcing him to open a Boom Tube that would get them to Apokolips as well. Before they left, Alfred gave each of them a new costume resembling that of Robin to remind them who they fought for. [ 137 ] After questioning Godfrey, Batman united with his allies and learned that Darkseid's son Kalibak was using a powerful stone known as the Chaos Crystal and Damian's sarcophagus to power a weapon called the Chaos Cannon that could destroy an entire moon. [ 138 ]
Batman's arrival on Apokolips roused even Darkseid himself, who challenged the determined father. Managing to get to Damian's body, Batman thrust the charged Chaos Crystal shard into Damian's chest and restored him. [ 139 ] Escaping Darkseid's world through a Boom Tube, it was then that they discovered Damian's resurrection from the Chaos Crystal had given him super-human abilities. [ 140 ] which wore off after some time. [ 141 ]
Endgame
The Joker returns, this time motivated by hatred
While recovering from an attack by the Scarecrow, Batman was attacked by a Jokerized Justice League, signaling the Joker had returned again at last. [ 142 ] After subduing the Justice League, Batman then learned that the newest doctor at Arkham Asylum—Eric Border—had actually been the Joker in disguise all along. The madman, shedding his disguise in front of the hero, activated a toxin in Gotham that rendered all of its citizens Jokerized. [ 143 ]
Looking for a cure for the new strain of toxin, Batman sought patient zero at the hospital for an antibody but discovered that patient zero was 'Joe Chill, the murderer of his parents. After hearing many rumors from friends and enemies alike, Batman began to believe that the Joker could possibly be immortal thanks to an exposure to the element Dionesium , a component found in Lazarus Pits . [ 144 ]
By the time Batman had discovered the fabled pool of Dionesium that had been in the Joker's system, the villain had found him and attacked him in the tunnels. They fought brutally until both of them were near death, and as the cavern collapsed around them, Bruce held the Joker back from the healing pool, forcing him to acknowledge that he had not been around for centuries as he'd claimed. Together, Batman and the Joker died in that cave.
Resurrection and Memory Loss
When Batman's dead body was discovered in the rubble of the collapsed cavern, he suddenly came awake, apparently revived by the Dionesium within the cavern's pit. Alfred discovered that the revival had had the profound effect of remaking Bruce's brain from scratch—with no memories of his past life. Alfred told him all that he felt necessary but withheld the fact that Bruce had been the Batman. Bruce—a new man—had not wanted to know anyway. [ 145 ] He later reunited with Julie Madison, an old girlfriend of his, and began working with her at the Lucius Fox Center for Gotham Youth in an effort to serve Gotham. [ 146 ]
Many of Batman's former allies tried to contact Bruce, including the Justice League, but Alfred insisted that Bruce's past as Batman remain a secret to him. Any invitation that was made for Bruce to become a hero again was by buried by Alfred.
After seeing firsthand just how awful the effects of the new super villain Mister Bloom's attacks were, Bruce's feelings on the issue were resolved, and he decided to accept being Batman again. [ 147 ] Despite Alfred's efforts, Bruce made it past him to the Batcave and discovered a device his former self had built in order to create clones who would have all of Batman's skills and memories. Bruce used the machine to get his memories back and returned at last to the role that killed him before. [ 148 ] The newly returned hero faced and defeated Mister Bloom and was returned the title of Batman from its current owner—Jim Gordon. [ 149 ]
Darkseid War
Bruce returned to being Batman just in time for an intense multiverse crisis— the Anti-Monitor and Darkseid were going to war, and they chose Earth as their battlefield.
God of Knowledge
The New God Metron , having infinite knowledge of the multiverse due to his Mobius Chair , came to the Justice League and tried to warn them of their impending doom. As a sacrificial precaution, Batman removed Metron from his chair and sat on himself to gain more knowledge of the war. By doing so, Batman was filled with every answer in the galaxy, total omniscience and nigh-unlimited omnipotence. He became the "God of Knowledge."
Batman asked the chair questions to test its knowledge, such as who his parents' murderer was. When the chair answered correctly, he asked the identity of the Joker, of which it responded "there are three."
With his new power on the Mobius Chair, Batman patrolled Gotham. Though Jim Gordon lit the Bat-Signal for him, Batman informed Jim it was unnecessary because now he knew every crime happening in Gotham and every crime that would happen. Jim questioned Batman's ethics with such a power, but the new God ignored him and harshly punished would-be criminals before they committed their crimes.
Batman discovered he couldn't change crimes in the past though when he tried to stop his parents from being murdered. Furious, instead, he traveled to the present to the jail cell of his parent's murderer Joe Chill. Batman angrily scolded the man and, in an effort to torture him, revealed that he—Batman—was Bruce Wayne before teleporting away. Chill was traumatized by the incident and didn't tell anybody what he had learned.
Batman's power had another price—he was incapable of escaping the Mobius chair. As the battle between Darkseid and the Anti-Monitor climaxed, Green Lantern Hal Jordan made a desperate attempt to free Batman from the chair's control by gifting him his Lantern ring, giving Batman enough willpower to leave the chair for good.
DC Rebirth
I Am Gotham, I Am Suicide, I Am Bane
Main articles: Batman: I Am Gotham , Batman: I Am Suicide , and Batman: I Am Bane
Batman, Gotham and Gotham Girl
While reestablishing himself as the protector of Gotham, Batman was greeted by two new super-powered heroes— Gotham and Gotham Girl —who he began to trust to serve the city. [ 150 ] However, the two rookies soon found themselves victims of the mind-altering villain Psycho-Pirate , who was working under the instruction of Hugo Strange. [ 151 ] Batman later discovered both men had been recruited to put a stop to the level of crime in Gotham City by Amanda Waller , but Strange had betrayed that mission. [ 152 ] Psycho-Pirate drove Gotham into a rage, causing him to kill criminals in an attempt to prevent crime, while simultaneously rendering Gotham Girl a nervous wreck. With the help of the Justice League, Batman was able to restrain Gotham, but the overexertion of his powers killed Gotham. [ 153 ]
Batman, wanting to find Psycho-Pirate to force him to fix Gotham Girl, discovered he had escaped to foreign nation of Santa Prisca and was under the protection of Bane. In order to get the Pirate back, Batman was encouraged by Waller to assemble a team that was practically "suicidal." He recruited a number of villains from Arkham Asylum: Ventriloquist , Bronze Tiger , Punch and Jewlee , and finally Catwoman, who was being held on 237 counts of murder. [ 154 ] The mission was a success; Batman and his team escaped with Psycho-Pirate and left Bane beaten. [ 155 ] Bruce later discovered Selina had taken the blame for the murders in order to protect her friend Holly Robinson , who had really committed the killings. She knew that if she took the fall, Batman would never let her die on death row and Holly's life would be saved. [ 156 ]
Bane returned to Gotham to seek revenge on Batman for humiliating him. [ 156 ] He fought and defeated dozens of Batman's rogues at Arkham Asylum to get to Batman, culminating in a fight between the two. Bruce emerged victorious, albeit barely. [ 1 ]
After the Justice League were forced to team up with the Suicide Squad to fend off Maxwell Lord's nefarious plot for peace, Batman recruited an assembly of heroes and villains he thought could do some good to form the new Justice League of America . [ 157 ]
Gotham Knights
Batman and Batwoman lead the Gotham Knights
Batman discovered he was being monitored by surveillance equipment, and after investigating he discovered Gotham's other heroes were being monitored as well. He recruited his cousin Kate Kane , also known as the vigilante Batwoman , to form a new team dedicated to combating this threat. The duo formed a boot camp for young heroes that would become known as the Gotham Knights , consisting of Red Robin, Orphan , Spoiler and a newly reformed Clayface ; [ 158 ] although the team would later recruit Batwing and Azrael as well. The Gotham Knights fought threats such as the Colony , a U.S. government agency dedicated to creating an army of soldiers modeled around Batman headed by Bruce's uncle (and Kate's father) Colonel Jacob Kane , [ 159 ] the Victim Syndicate , a team of victims caught up in Batman's war on crime who sought revenge, [ 160 ] the League of Shadows , an offshoot of the League of Assassins headed by Lady Shiva , [ 161 ] and the Order of St. Dumas . [ 162 ]
The team fell apart after Batwoman killed Clayface, who had gone rogue and was about to destroy the city. Batman objected to her use of lethal force, dividing the team and ultimately leading to its collapse. [ 163 ]
The Button
Batman holding the mysterious button
Following his discovery of a mysterious button lodged in the walls of the Batcave, Bruce attempted to research the button to no apparent avail until, one day, it had a reaction when placed near Psycho-Pirate's mask . Seemingly connected, Reverse-Flash broke into the Batcave and began to wallop Batman until he was mysteriously disintegrated by a being he claimed was God . [ 164 ]
In an attempt to discover who had killed Reverse-Flash and was manipulating the timestream, Batman and the Flash used the Cosmic Treadmill to follow the button's radiation and landed in the timeline Barry had created after he had gone back in time to save his mother . There, Bruce met the version of his father from that reality who had himself become Batman after the death of his son. [ 165 ] Thomas Wayne encouraged Bruce to stop being Batman, and instead seek happiness. [ 166 ] Batman and Flash managed to escape the collapsing timeline and return to their world with the help of Jay Garrick , who was stuck in the Speed Force . [ 167 ]
Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
Main article: Dark Nights: Metal
For some time, Bruce had been investigating the power of mysterious metals that he believed had been impacting the world since the dawn of mankind. By the time it was too late, Batman discovered that he had been selected by the demon Barbatos to be the vessel for his invasion of the Multiverse . [ 168 ] Over the years, the Court of Owls, who were in fact worshipers of Barbatos, had exposed him to four of the five heavy metals required to open the portal to the Dark Multiverse . They exposed him to the final metal, Batmanium , which transformed Bruce into a doorway, allowing Barbatos and his army of Dark Knights to enter. [ 169 ]
Bruce Wayne faces Barbatos in the Dark Multiverse
While his Justice League teammates fought the Dark Knights, Bruce's mind was trapped in the nightmarish Dark Multiverse. There, Barbatos told him that he first saw Batman when he was sent back in time to the dawn of man, and he had shaped Bruce's life in order to lead him to this point. [ 170 ] Superman attempted to restore Batman, but he too was captured in the Dark Multiverse. [ 171 ] With the help of Wonder Woman and Lady Blackhawk , Batman and Superman were rescued. Batman defeated the Batman Who Laughs , the leader of the Dark Knights, by teaming up with his most unlikely ally, the Joker. The Over-Monitor told the Justice League of the power of the Tenth Metal, Element X —the most powerful metal of all. Through channeling the tiny amount of Element X present in every living human being, the heroes were able to restore the Multiverse to its normal state, however in the process they shattered the Source Wall , the wall surrounding the Multiverse. As the League prepared to face any and all threats this could cause, Bruce presented his plans for a new Hall of Justice . [ 172 ]
Rules of Engagement
Main article: Batman: Rules of Engagement (Rebirth) (Collected)
Batman proposes to Catwoman
Following his father's advice and motivated by a conversation with Gotham Girl, Bruce decided to seek happiness in his life and proposed to Catwoman using the diamond she had stolen when they first met, [ 173 ] and she accepted. [ 58 ]
While Bruce and Catwoman temporarily left Gotham on a mission to find Holly Robinson in the country of Khadym, Alfred informed Dick, Jason, Duke and Damian of the engagement. Despite his initial doubts, Damian accepted his father's decision. [ 174 ] When Batman returned to Gotham, he was encouraged by Catwoman to tell his closest friend Superman of his engagement. [ 175 ] Batman, Superman, Catwoman and Lois Lane went on a double date; a rare occasion in which the two heroes got to spend time together outside of crime fighting. [ 176 ]
Wonder Woman arrived in Gotham, informing Batman that The Gentle Man had decided to take them up on an offer. Years ago, Batman and Wonder Woman discovered The Gentle Man, a man who endlessly protected Earth from the invasion of creatures from another realm. They offered him the chance to take his place for a day and he had decided to take them up on their offer. The Gentle Man failed to tell the heroes that time passed differently in this realm; while they spent what felt like years in battle, mere hours had passed on Earth. [ 177 ] While alone for so many years, Batman and Wonder Woman almost gave in to a romantic attraction but refrained out of love for their partners. Catwoman forced The Gentle Man to swap places with Batman and Wonder Woman once more. [ 178 ]
In an attempt to instill peace across the planet and protect Earth from destruction at humans' hands, Poison Ivy used her command over plant matter to take control of the minds of the entire planet's population, forcing them to live in harmony. Batman managed to inject himself and Catwoman with an antidote, leaving them the only people unaffected. [ 179 ] Batman and Catwoman executed a plan to get to Harley Quinn, who he theorized could be used to break Ivy's control. The plan was a success and, upon the two women reuniting, Ivy dropped her control over humanity. [ 180 ]
The time-travelling superhero Booster Gold , inspired by Superman's adventure to an alternate reality where Krypton survived , decided, as a wedding present to Batman, to create an alternate reality where Bruce's parents survived. However, after altering the timeline, Booster became trapped in this new, darker reality for two years until he was able to fix it again. Booster told Bruce about his attempted-gift but was permanently scarred from the incident. [ 181 ]
The Wedding of Batman and Catwoman
Main article: Batman: The Wedding (Collected)
When the Joker discovered that Batman and Catwoman were getting married, he staged an attack that he felt would ruin their wedding. Taking hostages at a cathedral, he forced Batman to play along in his mock-ceremony. Catwoman arrived, despite Batman's request that she stay home, and she fought off the Joker while Batman was incapacitated. As part of his plan, the Joker gave Catwoman the opportunity to let him bleed out and die, but she refused and actively saved his life. Though the clown was stopped, and the wedding was saved, during the fight, the Joker had gotten into Catwoman's head, sewing doubt that maybe if Batman was happily in a loving marriage, he wouldn't be Batman anymore.
The "Wedding" Of Batman and Catwoman
Afterwards, while fighting Kite-Man, Batman suggested to Catwoman that their wedding take place that dawn, on top of the building they were currently on—Finger Tower. The pair found a judge to officiate the ceremony—one they felt was so much of a drunk, he'd forget their identities after the fact. Bruce asked Alfred to be his best man and his witness, while Catwoman freed Holly Robinson from prison to act as her maid of honor and witness.
Though everything was going as planned, Bruce briefly reconsidered the wedding but, after a little soul searching, confidently told Alfred he was ready.
Selina had doubts of her own, as her maid of honor Holly continued to stoke Selina's fear that marriage would ruin Batman.
That dawn, after everything had been put into place, Catwoman never arrived, leaving Bruce alone at the altar. She gave into her fear and believed not getting married was for the best.
When Holly Robinson was returned to Arkham Asylum, she reported back to Bane that she had successfully stopped the wedding. All the events the past few months were orchestrated by Bane to mentally and emotionally break the Bat.
Aftermath of Breakup
Batman, after being left by Catwoman, became even more depressed than usual. During this depressed state, he viciously went after Mister Freeze , who had been accused of murdering three women. Batman beat him mercilessly until he confessed to the crime. [ 182 ]
When Freeze's case went to trial, coincidentally, Bruce Wayne was ordered to appear as a member of the jury. During the case, Bruce realized that he had made a mistake—Fries was actually innocent of the crimes—and had to convince the rest of the jury that Batman's evidence was not credible. Charismatically arguing against himself, Bruce successfully convinced the jury to acquit Mr. Freeze.
Afterwards, needing a fresh start, Batman decided to switch out the Batsuit he commonly wore, equipping one of his older models. He admitted he didn't want to wear the one that Catwoman left him in anymore. [ 183 ]
When the Joker learned that the Batman Who Laughs became the way he was due to a chemical that activated when he broke his Joker's neck, the Prime Earth clown shot himself in the heart in front of Batman to activate the same chemical. Though Alfred managed to resuscitate the Joker after the fact, the plan worked, and Batman was temporarily infected to become evil just like the Batman Who Laughs. However, using Bruce Waynes from across the multiverse, Batman managed to overcome the toxin and even defeated the original Batman Who Laughs. [ 184 ]
Bane's Conspiracy
During Bruce's jury session, Dick Grayson covered for him as Batman. After the trial, the mentor and mentee caught up with one another, and Dick expressed interest in returning to Gotham permanently. [ 185 ] However, as part of Bane's ultimate plan to break Batman, the KGBeast was hired to shoot Nightwing in the head, damaging his brain and giving him total amnesia. [ 186 ] [ 187 ] More furious than ever, Batman tracked the KGBeast to a remote location in the north and beat him senseless, leaving him to try to survive in the harsh tundra by himself. [ 188 ]
Batman returned to Gotham and was contacted by the Penguin, who informed him that Bane was behind everything: the wedding, the breakup, and the shooting of Nightwing. Bane had killed his favorite penguin, and Oswald had decided to defect from his plan. [ 189 ]
Bruce, trusting the information, went after Bane in Arkham, against the authority of the GCPD, and proceeded to beat up Bane in incarceration, despite the villain claiming he had no involvement. Jim Gordon tried to intervene, but Batman punched him in anger. [ 190 ] Gordon, cutting ties with the Bat entirely, destroyed the Bat-Signal with a baseball bat. [ 191 ]
In his pursuit for answers, Batman was captured by Bane, who hooked him up to a machine designed by Dr. Crane to generate non-stop realistic nightmares. After many emotional, horrifying scenarios, Bruce broke free from the machine and battled his way out of Arkham Asylum, tactically taking out almost every inmate who had been let free in the downtime. However, after the fact, Batman's allies found no evidence of the breakout when they returned to Arkham hours later, leading them to question his sanity.
Doomsday Clock
Main article: Doomsday Clock Vol 1
While Batman dealt with the growing conspiracy against him, approximately a year after Superman was merged back into a singular being , political tensions rose in the United States due to the "Superman Theory"—the idea that the US government was actively breeding superpowers in its citizens due to the exponentially higher accumulation of super-powered people in the West. Simultaneously, Batman's vigilantism was subject to widespread protests in Gotham by activists who felt the Bat's power went unchecked. Further escalating the tension, Wayne Enterprises was financially struggling and was under threat of being taken over by LexCorp . [ 192 ]
At this time, travelers from another dimension arrived in Gotham, looking for their peer Doctor Manhattan, who would solve their political crisis back on their Earth. Rorschach II was assigned to contact Batman for help in their mission and, upon finding the Batcave, shared the original Rorschach's journal with Bruce in order to better explain the situation they were in. Batman took the time to read the journal, decided the entire story was lunacy, and tricked Rorschach into a cell at Arkham Asylum. [ 193 ]
However, Batman learned to trust the story and, after finding and confronting Rorschach's leader Ozymandias , Veidt deemed Batman not useful to their cause and kicked him into a group of anti-Batman demonstrators. The protestors brought Batman to the Joker to be killed, but he was saved by Saturn Girl and Rorschach, having been released from Arkham by the former. [ 194 ]
As political tensions continued to rise, now pitting the Earth's governments against one another, Batman aided the travelers in hopes that Doctor Manhattan could save his world too. Batman specifically kept the US nuke operators from overreacting and launching their weapons against Russia.
Upon summoning him, Manhattan admitted to his part in altering this world's timeline and, inspired by the unwavering goodness of Superman, reset the timeline once again to repair the damages he had made.
City of Bane
City of Bane
Physically and emotionally drained from all the challenges he had gone through, Bruce returned to Wayne Manor to find Bane finally initiating his endgame plan with Alfred as his prisoner. Standing beside Bane was his co-conspirator—an alternate-reality version of Thomas Wayne. Unprepared for another fight, Batman was physically demolished by Bane as Alfred begged for mercy.
When Bruce awoke from unconsciousness, he found himself having been brought to a desert by his alternate-reality father. Thomas revealed that they were on their way to a Lazarus Pit to resurrect Bruce's mother's corpse. Though the two Waynes fought and bickered along the way, by the time they reached the Lazarus Pit, Bruce revealed he had secretly buried Martha's corpse in the desert without Thomas knowing. Both furious, the two men fought, and when morning arrived, only one Batman escaped the pit and returned to Gotham: Thomas.
Back in Gotham, Bane had taken control of the city and let all of the villains loose, assigning them as his new dystopian "police force." Batman's allies were powerless to stop the pandemonium as Bane had a hostage: Alfred, who he threatened to kill him should any Bat-Family member enter Gotham.
Meanwhile, Bruce was stuck in the wilderness, unknown how long he had been travelling for and on the brink of death. He only survived because he was found by Catwoman, who brought him to an apartment in Paris and helped him recover.
Back in Gotham, Bruce's son Damian ignored Bane's warning and single-handedly snuck into Gotham to depose Bane himself. However, Damian was captured, and, making good on his threat, Bane killed Alfred in front of the boy, now using Robin as his new hostage.
Batman reclaims his city
Once Bruce had recovered enough at Catwoman's side, he convinced her he needed to return to Gotham and save it from Bane's chaos. Though Selina was hesitant, she agreed and went with him; the time they spent in Paris helped rekindle their relationship.
Upon returning to Gotham, Batman teamed up with Clayface to take down all the villains that Bane had set free. Concurrently, Batman's allies made an attempt to rescue Damian from Bane but, despite their best effort, they were all defeated by Thomas Wayne.
Batman eventually fought his way to Bane's location and faced off with him, one on one, no equipment or help. Batman successfully defeated Bane by cheating, but, before Bruce had the opportunity to physically break his opponent, Thomas Wayne betrayed them both and them unconscious.
When Bruce came to, he was shown Alfred's mangled corpse for the first time by his father. In Thomas' eyes, his plan was complete—he had emotionally broken his son to give up being Batman. However, Alfred's death had empowered Bruce to strike out against his alternate-reality father. After a tough fight, Bruce reigned victorious over Thomas and swore that he was no longer his father.
Justice/Doom War
Batman took part in the first fight for the Totality , where he shrunk himself inside Superman's body to protect him from the Totality's power. The Dark Knight had to fight against Lex Luthor, who shrunk himself as well, and infiltrated inside the body of Clark. Bruce was deeply injured in the fight, as Lex was powered up by the piece of the Totality he already possessed: both the Dark Knight's legs and arms were broken. [ 195 ]
During Drowned Earth , Bruce was the only defense of the Hall of Justice, and managed to fight the Legion of Doom alone, but in the end lost, and Luthor was able to take the Totality away from the Justice League. [ 196 ]
During the League's expedition in the Sixth Dimension , Bruce tricked the World Forger into believing the Dark Knight was his ally, while he gave Superman a chance to free himself up and counter the actions of Alpheus. Batman then convinced the World Forger into becoming a part of the League's active roster. [ 197 ] Back on Earth, Bruce went to the future together with Wonder Woman and Superman, for a last effort against Luthor, who turned into the Apex Predator: finding themselves against Brainiac One Million , they were able to prevail thanks to the help of several Justice Leagues from the future, retrieving a piece of the Totality lost in time. [ 198 ]
In the final conflict between Justice and Doom, Batman battled Luthor inside a transformed Hall, but thanks to Perpetua 's full awakening, Justice lost. Transported away by the Quintessence , Batman was part of the League's last mission leading them to defeat Perpetua, [ 199 ] but they once again failed. Coming back to Earth, they found their home turned into the Batman who Laughs' Metalverse. [ 200 ]
Joker War
Main article: The Joker War
While still recovering from the loss of his mentor and father figure, Batman was dragged into a criminal conspiracy that had lasted for years regarding a secret supervillain named the Designer , and at the same time was forced to fight off five assassins who were after him as part of the Designer's grand scheme. The Riddler also staged an attack on Gotham, while he was broken physically and mentally due to not treating himself properly, being too busy trying to come up with the ultimate riddle to fool Batman. However, Batman quickly took out most of the assassins and teamed up with Deathstroke , Catwoman, Harley Quinn to defeat Riddler. Through all this the Joker was planning his ultimate surprise for the Dark Knight and his Bat-Family, with the startling knowledge of their secret identities once more.
After Batman tracked down the Designer, it was revealed the Joker was playing everyone, pulling the strings all along. He initiated his plot with his new sidekick Punchline , sending out waves of Joker rioters, who instantly took over the city. He also injected Batman with a toxin that made him see visions of Alfred and his parents with broken necks. Using the Designer's master plan designed for Catwoman, the Joker even successfully stole the Wayne fortune, making himself rich. Using more of the Designer's information, including a formula to reanimate corpses, the clown brought people back from the dead as zombies to attack Batman and Harley. [ 201 ]
Joker's second endgame
Meanwhile, Joker was wasting Bruce's money everywhere, on things like Jokerized limos and gold chain necklaces. Batman and Harley found their way to the rest of the Bat-Family, where they met and came up with a plan. Bruce also regifted the Nightwing costume to Dick Grayson, who had gotten a large portion of his memories back since his shooting.
Finally, Batman went to confront the Joker once and for all at his headquarters—ACE Chemicals. Upon his arrival, Bruce discovered that the Joker had partially resurrected Alfred's corpse as a zombie. Though Batman was emotionally crushed by the sight, he was forced to fight the Joker, who was wearing his own Jokerized Batsuit. [ 202 ] [ 203 ] Using Batman's gadgets against him, the Joker eventually got the upper hand on Batman and, as he was about to finish him off, was ambushed with a bullet through the eye by Harley Quinn. Harley then strapped bombs to both herself and Joker, forcing Batman to make the decision of which of the two he would defuse in time. To Joker's surprise, the Bat chose Harley, apparently leaving the Joker to die.
With the Joker War officially over, in the aftermath, Bruce discovered the Joker's bomb had been defused, theorizing that the Joker used his bat-equipment to set himself free. Bruce reburied Alfred's corpse with his allies. [ 204 ]
Ghost Stories
Batman battles the mysterious new vigilante, Ghost-Maker
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Ghost-Maker arrives in Gotham planning to replace Batman as protector, and, after a fierce battle, becomes a sort of ally to Batman. [ 205 ] [ 206 ] [ 207 ] [ 208 ]
Death Metal
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Infinite Frontier
Urban Legends
Batman fights Red Hood again
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Neighborhood
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Fear State
Batman withstands The The Magistrate's assault
Main article: Fear State
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Abyss
Batman declines Abyss' offer to kill Lex Luthor
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Shadows of the Bat
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Shadow War
Batman and Robin go to war against Deathstroke
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Failsafe
Batman becomes Batman of Zur-En-Arrh again
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Gotham Nocturne
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dark Crisis
Bruce, as "The Night," is trapped in a pocket dimension after The Justice League's apparent death
Main article: Dark Crisis
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Flashpoint Beyond
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dawn of DC
The Bat-Man of Gotham
Batman defeats Red Mask
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Gotham War
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Mind Bomb
A possessed Batman brutally beats up The Joker
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dark Prisons
Batman is kidnapped by Failsafe
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Absolute Power
Batman & The Justice League are powerless
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
All In
Batman helps to expand The Justice League
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Mother June
Batman, The Justice League & The Challengers of The Unknown solve a mystery
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Return of Hush
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Powers and Abilities
Abilities
Acrobatics : Bruce is known as one of the finest human athletes on Earth, as well as proficient in gymnastics and acrobatics. Even before leaving to train as Batman, he was a very skilled acrobat. [ 11 ] [ 209 ]
Athletics [ 176 ]
Equestrianism [ 210 ]
Genius Level Intellect : Batman is considered one of the smartest beings on the planet, alongside Lex Luthor. [ 192 ] He owns a spectacular collection of books [ 211 ] and claims to know every book. [ 212 ] Batman is highly knowledgeable in various academic fields. While Bruce never attended college, he spent years studying under several mentors in numerous scientific fields and engaging in autodidactic studies on his own time during his global sojourn. Aviation [ 213 ] [ 214 ] Business Management : Bruce has years of experience in business management. He has thorough understanding of financial marketing and management. His industrial and business skills are on par with Lex Luthor. Computer Hacking : Bruce was able to hack and record the mobile frequency of the Suicide Squad members' brain bombs and deactivate them. [ 215 ] He can even hack into a Green Lantern Ring and an Apokoliptian computer. [ 216 ] [ 217 ] [ 218 ] [ 219 ] Criminology Disguise : Bruce is a master of disguise having been trained by Alfred. [ 220 ] Driving : Bruce was trained by Brazilian criminal, Don Miguel, in tactical driving. [ 221 ] He is capable of driving many vehicles including cars, motorcycles & trucks, and can pilot jets, planes, helicopters, boats and submarines. Escapology [ 108 ] Eidetic Memory : Bruce knows the "Memory Palace Technique," a strategy of memory enhancement that allows him to treat and store memories like a museum. He was taught this technique by Ra's al Ghul. [ 222 ] With this technique, Bruce has developed a memory palace which allows him to store information for easier recall through a series of mnemonic devices and images. [ 223 ] Gadgetry [ 28 ] [ 224 ] Hypnosis [ 225 ] Hunting : Bruce learned how hunt and kill deer during his time training under Luka Jungo in Canada. [ 226 ] While Bruce is highly skilled when it comes hunting targets in urban environments, he admits that he's rusty when it comes to hunting in wilderness environments. [ 227 ] Investigation : Hailed as the World's Greatest Detective, Batman has few equals when it comes to forensic investigations and solving crime mysteries. [ 93 ] He is able to use even the smallest clues and slightest details to solve extremely difficult cases and accurately deduce the identity of unknown criminal masterminds. He is capable of observation, forensic investigation, and inductive and deductive reasoning of the highest caliber. [ 228 ] Even with prior to his detective training, Bruce was capable of deducing and discovering one of the Court of Owls' meeting places when he was eight years old. [ 229 ] Human intuition is an unlearnable trait and one of Batman's most effective tools. Given any mystery, he can arrive at the correct conclusions with a fraction of the data. [ 2 ] Leadership : Bruce has experienced leading the Justice League, the Outsiders and the Bat-Family. Lock Picking : Bruce learned how to pick a lock when he was in grade school. [ 162 ] He can pick handcuff locks in a few seconds, [ 230 ] and can even pick a lock with his mouth. [ 231 ] Multilingualism : Batman is fluent in Portuguese, Dhari, Latin, [ 232 ] Mandarin, [ 233 ] Turkish, [ 234 ] Russian, [ 235 ] Indonesian, [ 236 ] Greek, [ 3 ] Serbian, [ 237 ] Icelandic, [ 238 ] French, [ 239 ] Korean, [ 23 ] Shanghainese, [ 35 ] Spanish, [ 240 ] Gaelic, [ 241 ] Polish, [ 242 ] and Kryptonese. [ 243 ] [ 244 ] [ 245 ] He can also sign American Sign Language, [ 9 ] [ 246 ] and understand Morse Code, [ 247 ] and Argot of the Ancient Sea People. [ 248 ] Multiple Personalities : After training under Dr. Daniel Captio and learning to use his mind to its full potential, Bruce created an alternate personality he'd implanted within himself, to act as a contingency and protection against psychological attacks. He named this personality the Batman of Zur-En-Arrh. This version of Bruce has less restraint and acts more violent than Bruce normally would. [ 249 ] Occultism : Batman hates magic, but has allowed himself to learn at least a one spell, as a contingency for Superman, which is a backwards spell that allows him to summon a magical suit of armor. [ 250 ] Batman is knowledgeable enough to instantly identify magic, stating he can feel the sensation of it. [ 251 ] Batman was skilled also enough to read a spell to expel a demon . [ 252 ] During his training, Bruce was taught ancient potions and techniques for healing the body, by Ra's al Ghul . [ 36 ] Pedagogy : Bruce has trained multiple members of the Bat-Family in a wide variety of subjects, including martial arts and investigation. [ 60 ] Prestidigitation : Bruce has some knowledge of stage magic and sleight of hand, taught to him by Giovanni Zatara. [ 253 ] Science Chemistry [ 254 ] [ 255 ] Forensic Pathology : Bruce is an expert forensic scientist. [ 256 ] He is capable of performing autopsies. [ 257 ] Mechanical Engineering [ 258 ] [ 259 ] Built a small universal translator device based off Green Lantern's power ring translator technology. [ 260 ] Built a cloning machine. [ 261 ] Medical Science : Bruce was able to perform brain surgery on Two-Face that completely negated Harvey's darker side for some time. [ 262 ] He was able to implant a failsafe in Jason that induces him with a sense of fear whenever he experiences heightened adrenaline. [ 263 ] Robotic Engineering : Batman created the android Failsafe. [ 264 ] Tactical Analysis : Batman is known as one of the greatest strategists and tacticians in the universe. His strategies are so great, that even Mister Terrific couldn't find a flaw in his battle plan against the Pykkt Empire, especially after going over every angle of it. [ 265 ] Tracking
Aviation [ 213 ] [ 214 ]
Business Management : Bruce has years of experience in business management. He has thorough understanding of financial marketing and management. His industrial and business skills are on par with Lex Luthor.
Computer Hacking : Bruce was able to hack and record the mobile frequency of the Suicide Squad members' brain bombs and deactivate them. [ 215 ] He can even hack into a Green Lantern Ring and an Apokoliptian computer. [ 216 ] [ 217 ] [ 218 ] [ 219 ]
Criminology
Disguise : Bruce is a master of disguise having been trained by Alfred. [ 220 ]
Driving : Bruce was trained by Brazilian criminal, Don Miguel, in tactical driving. [ 221 ] He is capable of driving many vehicles including cars, motorcycles & trucks, and can pilot jets, planes, helicopters, boats and submarines.
Escapology [ 108 ]
Eidetic Memory : Bruce knows the "Memory Palace Technique," a strategy of memory enhancement that allows him to treat and store memories like a museum. He was taught this technique by Ra's al Ghul. [ 222 ] With this technique, Bruce has developed a memory palace which allows him to store information for easier recall through a series of mnemonic devices and images. [ 223 ]
Gadgetry [ 28 ] [ 224 ]
Hypnosis [ 225 ]
Hunting : Bruce learned how hunt and kill deer during his time training under Luka Jungo in Canada. [ 226 ] While Bruce is highly skilled when it comes hunting targets in urban environments, he admits that he's rusty when it comes to hunting in wilderness environments. [ 227 ]
Investigation : Hailed as the World's Greatest Detective, Batman has few equals when it comes to forensic investigations and solving crime mysteries. [ 93 ] He is able to use even the smallest clues and slightest details to solve extremely difficult cases and accurately deduce the identity of unknown criminal masterminds. He is capable of observation, forensic investigation, and inductive and deductive reasoning of the highest caliber. [ 228 ] Even with prior to his detective training, Bruce was capable of deducing and discovering one of the Court of Owls' meeting places when he was eight years old. [ 229 ] Human intuition is an unlearnable trait and one of Batman's most effective tools. Given any mystery, he can arrive at the correct conclusions with a fraction of the data. [ 2 ]
Leadership : Bruce has experienced leading the Justice League, the Outsiders and the Bat-Family.
Lock Picking : Bruce learned how to pick a lock when he was in grade school. [ 162 ] He can pick handcuff locks in a few seconds, [ 230 ] and can even pick a lock with his mouth. [ 231 ]
Multilingualism : Batman is fluent in Portuguese, Dhari, Latin, [ 232 ] Mandarin, [ 233 ] Turkish, [ 234 ] Russian, [ 235 ] Indonesian, [ 236 ] Greek, [ 3 ] Serbian, [ 237 ] Icelandic, [ 238 ] French, [ 239 ] Korean, [ 23 ] Shanghainese, [ 35 ] Spanish, [ 240 ] Gaelic, [ 241 ] Polish, [ 242 ] and Kryptonese. [ 243 ] [ 244 ] [ 245 ] He can also sign American Sign Language, [ 9 ] [ 246 ] and understand Morse Code, [ 247 ] and Argot of the Ancient Sea People. [ 248 ]
Multiple Personalities : After training under Dr. Daniel Captio and learning to use his mind to its full potential, Bruce created an alternate personality he'd implanted within himself, to act as a contingency and protection against psychological attacks. He named this personality the Batman of Zur-En-Arrh. This version of Bruce has less restraint and acts more violent than Bruce normally would. [ 249 ]
Occultism : Batman hates magic, but has allowed himself to learn at least a one spell, as a contingency for Superman, which is a backwards spell that allows him to summon a magical suit of armor. [ 250 ] Batman is knowledgeable enough to instantly identify magic, stating he can feel the sensation of it. [ 251 ] Batman was skilled also enough to read a spell to expel a demon . [ 252 ] During his training, Bruce was taught ancient potions and techniques for healing the body, by Ra's al Ghul . [ 36 ]
Pedagogy : Bruce has trained multiple members of the Bat-Family in a wide variety of subjects, including martial arts and investigation. [ 60 ]
Prestidigitation : Bruce has some knowledge of stage magic and sleight of hand, taught to him by Giovanni Zatara. [ 253 ]
Science Chemistry [ 254 ] [ 255 ] Forensic Pathology : Bruce is an expert forensic scientist. [ 256 ] He is capable of performing autopsies. [ 257 ] Mechanical Engineering [ 258 ] [ 259 ] Built a small universal translator device based off Green Lantern's power ring translator technology. [ 260 ] Built a cloning machine. [ 261 ] Medical Science : Bruce was able to perform brain surgery on Two-Face that completely negated Harvey's darker side for some time. [ 262 ] He was able to implant a failsafe in Jason that induces him with a sense of fear whenever he experiences heightened adrenaline. [ 263 ] Robotic Engineering : Batman created the android Failsafe. [ 264 ]
Chemistry [ 254 ] [ 255 ]
Forensic Pathology : Bruce is an expert forensic scientist. [ 256 ] He is capable of performing autopsies. [ 257 ]
Mechanical Engineering [ 258 ] [ 259 ] Built a small universal translator device based off Green Lantern's power ring translator technology. [ 260 ] Built a cloning machine. [ 261 ]
Medical Science : Bruce was able to perform brain surgery on Two-Face that completely negated Harvey's darker side for some time. [ 262 ] He was able to implant a failsafe in Jason that induces him with a sense of fear whenever he experiences heightened adrenaline. [ 263 ]
Robotic Engineering : Batman created the android Failsafe. [ 264 ]
Tactical Analysis : Batman is known as one of the greatest strategists and tacticians in the universe. His strategies are so great, that even Mister Terrific couldn't find a flaw in his battle plan against the Pykkt Empire, especially after going over every angle of it. [ 265 ]
Tracking
Indomitable Will [ 266 ] : Bruce's immense willpower makes him immune to the telepathy of Gorilla Grodd , who had the telepathic power of his past self and Martian Manhunter combined in addition to his own. [ 267 ]
Interrogation : Batman is well adept in interrogation techniques, often using law enforcement methods as well as torture.
Intimidation : Batman is able to instill great fear into others. His ability to do this was so great, he was capable of wielding a Yellow Lantern Ring. Sinestro even stated that he considered Batman a worthy member of the Sinestro Corps. [ 122 ]
Martial Arts : Batman is one of the greatest martial artists on the planet, having been trained by the best fighters around the world, including: Ted Grant , David Cain , Henri Ducard , Master Kirigi , H'sein Tsan , [ 268 ] Richard Dragon , [ 269 ] Talia al Ghul , [ 36 ] and Ra's al Ghul . [ 269 ] In turn, he has also been able to pass on his learnings to his many proteges. Batwoman was able to identify at least fourteen different styles of martial arts from watching footage of Batman fight. [ 270 ] Bruce even learned a technique called "language of combat," wherein he can communicate with others while fighting without speaking. [ 271 ] Thanks to his years of martial arts training, Bruce can identify the martial art that his opponent uses against him and counter nearly any opponent. [ 272 ] [ 273 ] [ 274 ] He is also capable of deducing when opponents are holding back in a fight. [ 275 ] [ 276 ] During his second year as Batman, Bruce traveled into space, followed by learning and mastering a variety of alien martial arts. [ 277 ] Batman has shown superiority to his own sidekicks. [ 278 ] [ 279 ] [ 280 ] Boxing : Bruce studied boxing during his time at Roxbury Fielding Academy. [ 16 ] He was also trained in this fighting style by Wildcat. [ 32 ] Bam Pow : Bruce has trained in a unique fighting style that he invented to combat the Batman Who Laughs, which Alfred calls "Bam Pow." [ 281 ] Dim Mak : Batman is skilled in this ancient form of martial arts where you strike vital points of the opponent's body causing paralysis, intense and prolonged pain or death. He knows a two-finger nerve strike technique that, if not executed perfectly and with the precise amount of pressure, can easily kill someone. [ 282 ] Eskrima : Batman is highly skilled in Eskrima, capable of using a pair of metal pipes as an improvised set of eskrima sticks. He presumebly taught this fighting style to the Robins. [ 283 ] Jiu-Jitsu [ 284 ] Karate [ 285 ] Klurkor : Batman is skilled in Klurkor, a form of Kryptonian martial arts. [ 286 ] Krav Maga [ 287 ] Kung Fu [ 288 ] Wushu [ 288 ] Muay Thai [ 289 ] [ 290 ] Mushin [ 291 ] [ 292 ] Ninjutsu [ 60 ] Nitojutsu [ 23 ] Tae Kwon Do [ 293 ] Wrestling : While weary and suffering from blood loss, Bruce managed to wrestle with a bear. [ 294 ]
Boxing : Bruce studied boxing during his time at Roxbury Fielding Academy. [ 16 ] He was also trained in this fighting style by Wildcat. [ 32 ]
Bam Pow : Bruce has trained in a unique fighting style that he invented to combat the Batman Who Laughs, which Alfred calls "Bam Pow." [ 281 ]
Dim Mak : Batman is skilled in this ancient form of martial arts where you strike vital points of the opponent's body causing paralysis, intense and prolonged pain or death. He knows a two-finger nerve strike technique that, if not executed perfectly and with the precise amount of pressure, can easily kill someone. [ 282 ]
Eskrima : Batman is highly skilled in Eskrima, capable of using a pair of metal pipes as an improvised set of eskrima sticks. He presumebly taught this fighting style to the Robins. [ 283 ]
Jiu-Jitsu [ 284 ]
Karate [ 285 ]
Klurkor : Batman is skilled in Klurkor, a form of Kryptonian martial arts. [ 286 ]
Krav Maga [ 287 ]
Kung Fu [ 288 ] Wushu [ 288 ]
Wushu [ 288 ]
Muay Thai [ 289 ] [ 290 ]
Mushin [ 291 ] [ 292 ]
Ninjutsu [ 60 ] Nitojutsu [ 23 ]
Nitojutsu [ 23 ]
Tae Kwon Do [ 293 ]
Wrestling : While weary and suffering from blood loss, Bruce managed to wrestle with a bear. [ 294 ]
Meditation [ 295 ]
Music : Bruce is skilled at guitar. [ 296 ]
Peak Human Condition : Through intense training, a specialized diet, and biofeedback treatments, Batman represents the natural pinnacle of human physical prowess. His physical attributes roughly exceed that of an Olympic level athlete. His strength, speed, stamina, agility, reflexes and coordination are at peak human perfection. Bruce has spent his entire life in pursuit of physical perfection and has attained it through constant intensive training and determination. He can hold his breath underwater for eighteen minutes, [ 297 ] and can even slow his heart rate to slow his bleeding. [ 36 ] Bruce has also mastered a Tibetan meditation technique that allows him to increase his body temperature to the point that he can melt snow and ice around him. [ 298 ] Due to his contact with Dionesium, Batman was healed from all trauma and scarring received throughout the years of crime-fighting; enhancing his peak physical prowess to newer heights. [ 299 ] [ 149 ] [ 300 ] Peak Human Strength : Batman's strength is at the peak of human potential, far beyond that of an ordinary human. [ 301 ] [ 302 ] He's capable of kicking through trees and a motorcycle. [ 303 ] [ 304 ] He was able to lift Solomon Grundy with a single hand, someone who weighs over five hundred pounds. [ 305 ] He was able to slow down and prevent a getaway car from speeding, [ 306 ] resist the pull of a turbo jet engine, [ 307 ] and break a Man-Bat's arm with ease. [ 308 ] Despite being extremely weakened, he was still able to punch the superhuman Talon through a wall. [ 309 ] Peak Human Durability : Batman is incredibly resilient pain and injury due to his immense training. Under the tutelage of Dr. Daniel Captio , Bruce learned how to essentially "turn off" his pain receptors to convince his brain he isn't feeling pain. [ 35 ] This has allowed him to perform feats such as grabbing and using a scorching hot chain, wearing only hand wraps. [ 310 ] Batman has even been able to survive an intense fall from outer space and harsh re-entry into Earth's atmosphere, with only minor injuries. [ 311 ] Peak Human Speed : Batman's speed is at the peak of human potential, far beyond that of an ordinary human. Batman's so fast that his punches and kicks are blurs in combat. [ 312 ] Peak Human Agility Peak Human Reflexes Peak Human Senses : Throughout Batman's years of fighting crime and intense training, his senses became so heightened that he can identify magic by feeling it, detect invisible objects, and can even see spirits like Deadman who remain unseen by normal people. [ 251 ] [ 313 ] [ 314 ] Batman has the best senses in the entire Bat-Family, as he was the only one capable of sensing Nightwing's presence, when the rest of them couldn't. [ 315 ] Not even Orphan or the Flash are capable of sneaking up on Batman, without him knowing. [ 316 ] [ 317 ] [ 318 ] Peak Human Stamina : Thanks to Bruce's training and experience, his stamina and endurance has allowed him to fight for 28 hours straight. [ 30 ] He underwent and survived the Thogal Ritual, where he spent 7 weeks in cave while undergoing a dangerous type of meditation in order to simulate an experience of death and rebirth. [ 319 ] Bruce barely sleeps and is capable of regularly functioning on as little as two hours of rest in order to operate as Batman. [ 320 ] Toxic Immunity : Bruce has acclimated himself to most toxins and poisons. [ 321 ]
Peak Human Strength : Batman's strength is at the peak of human potential, far beyond that of an ordinary human. [ 301 ] [ 302 ] He's capable of kicking through trees and a motorcycle. [ 303 ] [ 304 ] He was able to lift Solomon Grundy with a single hand, someone who weighs over five hundred pounds. [ 305 ] He was able to slow down and prevent a getaway car from speeding, [ 306 ] resist the pull of a turbo jet engine, [ 307 ] and break a Man-Bat's arm with ease. [ 308 ] Despite being extremely weakened, he was still able to punch the superhuman Talon through a wall. [ 309 ]
Peak Human Durability : Batman is incredibly resilient pain and injury due to his immense training. Under the tutelage of Dr. Daniel Captio , Bruce learned how to essentially "turn off" his pain receptors to convince his brain he isn't feeling pain. [ 35 ] This has allowed him to perform feats such as grabbing and using a scorching hot chain, wearing only hand wraps. [ 310 ] Batman has even been able to survive an intense fall from outer space and harsh re-entry into Earth's atmosphere, with only minor injuries. [ 311 ]
Peak Human Speed : Batman's speed is at the peak of human potential, far beyond that of an ordinary human. Batman's so fast that his punches and kicks are blurs in combat. [ 312 ]
Peak Human Agility
Peak Human Reflexes
Peak Human Senses : Throughout Batman's years of fighting crime and intense training, his senses became so heightened that he can identify magic by feeling it, detect invisible objects, and can even see spirits like Deadman who remain unseen by normal people. [ 251 ] [ 313 ] [ 314 ] Batman has the best senses in the entire Bat-Family, as he was the only one capable of sensing Nightwing's presence, when the rest of them couldn't. [ 315 ] Not even Orphan or the Flash are capable of sneaking up on Batman, without him knowing. [ 316 ] [ 317 ] [ 318 ]
Peak Human Stamina : Thanks to Bruce's training and experience, his stamina and endurance has allowed him to fight for 28 hours straight. [ 30 ] He underwent and survived the Thogal Ritual, where he spent 7 weeks in cave while undergoing a dangerous type of meditation in order to simulate an experience of death and rebirth. [ 319 ] Bruce barely sleeps and is capable of regularly functioning on as little as two hours of rest in order to operate as Batman. [ 320 ]
Toxic Immunity : Bruce has acclimated himself to most toxins and poisons. [ 321 ]
Precognition : After receiving training from a Mongolian Pastoralist, Bruce learned how to read the environment, to feel the subtle shifts in the Earth, in temperatures and the changing in the wind. [ 322 ] [ 323 ] He has even had a prophetic dream vision of the future. [ 324 ]
Sewing [ 325 ]
Stealth [ 326 ]
Survival : Batman has excellent survival instincts and can quickly adapt to nearly any situation. His instincts are so great, Batman was capable of surviving in outer space for approximately 11 hours utilizing only his standard equipment. [ 311 ] [ 310 ]
Swimming [ 327 ]
Ventriloquism [ 328 ]
Weaponry : Through his martial arts training, Bruce has become an expert in melee weaponry. He has displayed exceptional sword fighting capability and proficiency with knives, sticks, and various other weapons. He practices during his combat sessions to keep his skills intact, but he prefers unarmed combat. Archery : Bruce learned how to hunt and kill deer with a bow and arrow from Luka Jungo in British Columbia. [ 329 ] Bruce was able to teach Tim Drake how to use a bow and arrow. [ 330 ] However, Bruce admits that his archery skills are rusty. [ 331 ] Demolitions [ 332 ] Firearms : Despite his opposition to the use of firearms, Bruce is one of the world's top ten marksmen. [ 333 ] He was trained by Luka Jungo in Canada on how to handle hand guns and received sniper training. [ 334 ] Fencing : Bruce studied fencing during his time at Roxbury Fielding Academy. [ 16 ] During the first month of his training in France, Bruce trained with someone who claimed to be "the world's best fencer," whom he later bested after two weeks. [ 335 ] Swordsmanship : Bruce is a master swordsman, having been trained by both Master Kirigi and Ra's al Ghul in sword fighting. [ 23 ] [ 269 ] Stick Fighting : Batman is skilled in multiple stick-based martial arts, having trained the Robins to use bo-staffs. [ 60 ] [ 283 ] Throwing : Batman is a master marksman, capable of throwing his batarangs with immense precision. [ 336 ]
Archery : Bruce learned how to hunt and kill deer with a bow and arrow from Luka Jungo in British Columbia. [ 329 ] Bruce was able to teach Tim Drake how to use a bow and arrow. [ 330 ] However, Bruce admits that his archery skills are rusty. [ 331 ]
Demolitions [ 332 ]
Firearms : Despite his opposition to the use of firearms, Bruce is one of the world's top ten marksmen. [ 333 ] He was trained by Luka Jungo in Canada on how to handle hand guns and received sniper training. [ 334 ]
Fencing : Bruce studied fencing during his time at Roxbury Fielding Academy. [ 16 ] During the first month of his training in France, Bruce trained with someone who claimed to be "the world's best fencer," whom he later bested after two weeks. [ 335 ]
Swordsmanship : Bruce is a master swordsman, having been trained by both Master Kirigi and Ra's al Ghul in sword fighting. [ 23 ] [ 269 ]
Stick Fighting : Batman is skilled in multiple stick-based martial arts, having trained the Robins to use bo-staffs. [ 60 ] [ 283 ]
Throwing : Batman is a master marksman, capable of throwing his batarangs with immense precision. [ 336 ]
Other Characteristics
Missing Limb (Formerly) : A battle with the Ghost-Breaker lead to the unfortunate loss of Bruce's right hand. [ 337 ] [ 338 ] He was later given a robotic hand. [ 339 ] Bruce was later given a new right hand by the Robin of Zur-En-Arrh prior to his death. [ 340 ]
Drug Addiction (Formerly) : Bruce was addicted to Venom at one point. [ 341 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Batsuit : The costume Batman wears is composed of Kevlar and a small percentage of titanium; it's bulletproof and resistant to various types of attack (explosions, impacts, falls, among others). Bruce later upgraded the suit to be made of an unknown synthetic polymer stronger than Kevlar that he designed. [ 342 ] [ 343 ] It is also flame-retardant and insulated. The gloves and the boots are reinforced to rebound the impact of punches and kicks. The gloves have some metallic blades on their sides. The cape is super-light, and it can be used to glide. [ 344 ] [ 345 ] [ 346 ] [ 347 ] The mask has a small percentage of lead, which shields Batman's face from X-ray powers or X-ray technology, and incorporates an infrared and night vision viewer, [ 348 ] auditory sensors and a sonar. The mask is accessorized with some security systems (aggravating gas, electric blasts, etc.) like the utility belt, and also integrates an audio and video transmitter receiver device. The Batsuit can withstand temperatures of atmospheric re-entry (1477° C/2691° F) and can absorb energy and redirect it back at his opponents. [ 311 ] [ 349 ] [ 350 ] [ 351 ]
Utility Belt : Batman keeps most of his personal field equipment in a signature piece of apparel, a yellow utility belt. The utility belt has a button to call the Batmobile, and a command for teleportation. Over the years it has contained items such as plastic explosives, nerve toxins, batarangs, smoke bombs, a fingerprint kit, a cutting tool, a grappling hook gun, torches, and a "re-breather" breathing device. Superman entrusted Batman with a ring made of kryptonite , to be used should the Man of Steel ever need to be reined in (due to being mind-controlled by a villain, etc.). The kryptonite ring is contained in a lead pocket, in order to shield Batman from its radiations. Along with a portable EMP, [ 104 ] the belt also has its own automatic security systems preventing outside users from accessing it. The belt even houses a portable spherical device that he created, that can scan technology, levitate and identify magic . [ 352 ] [ 353 ] Has a small device that can launch out a plethora chains made out of energy to pierce and restrain  opponents. [ 354 ] It has been counted that 42 sets of items, covers at least 30 percent of how much the Utility Belt can carry; meaning that the average belt can carry at least 140 sets of items. [ 159 ]
Hellbat : This suit is one of the three most powerful suits that Batman has ever used. Made for the battle, for the most extreme situations, due to Batman not having powers of his own. Although he couldn't originally access this suit by himself, without the permission from the rest of the Justice League. [ 355 ] Batman now has full access to the suit and can summon it to him whenever he wants. [ 356 ] Powerful enough to contend with a demon that was capable of containing Etrigan , beat down Kalibak and even stalemate Darkseid. [ 356 ] [ 357 ] [ 358 ] [ 359 ]
Batcomputer : The central focus of all of Batman's computer-based technology, wired into nearly all of Batman's equipment. Built and manufactured by Batman, Alfred Pennyworth and Lucius Fox. It even possesses security protocols so that only Batman and members of the Bat-Family are allowed to use it. The Batcomputer is capable of initiating commands that involve hacking, scanning, solving, storing and processing any information that Batman or the Bat-Family desires. Holding a plethora of cryptic data and information, that even someone like Amanda Waller would find valuable. [ 155 ] The communication connection and transitional frequencies can span up to 3,137 million light years. [ 360 ] [ 361 ] Bruce has even expanded its processing power and other capabilities by adapting a bot root code known as the Genie A.I. into it, including a Mother Box . [ 362 ] [ 363 ] It can even detect supernatural forces, such as magic energy. [ 364 ] Genie A.I. [ 365 ] [ 366 ] [ 367 ] [ 368 ] [ 369 ] [ 370 ]
Genie A.I. [ 365 ] [ 366 ] [ 367 ] [ 368 ] [ 369 ] [ 370 ]
EMP Mask : Batman carries EMP tech that he can use as holographic disguise to morph his face to even his entire body. [ 93 ] [ 371 ] [ 372 ] [ 373 ]
Cybernetic Hand (Formerly) : Thanks to the efforts of Bruce Wayne of Earth-31 , Bruce now possesses a bionic metal hand that he has full functional control over. [ 338 ] It is strong and emits smoke. He's been able to snap Nightwing's Escrima Sticks like a twig, and was able to do the same to Robin's Battle Staff . He was also able to grip his fingers into a car door and tear it off. [ 263 ] He recently got his hand back thanks to a clone of himself cutting off his own hand and giving it to Bruce as a gift. [ 374 ] Enhanced Strength [ 263 ] Smoke Projection [ 375 ]
Enhanced Strength [ 263 ]
Smoke Projection [ 375 ]
Energy Blades : Batman has a pair of gauntlets capable of projecting powerful energy blades, that are strong enough to combat the near-indestructible Failsafe. [ 375 ]
Magic Gauntlets : Batman was gifted a pair of magical gauntlets by John Constantine , which allow him to fight non-corporeal beings hand-to-hand, as he did with Gentleman Ghost . Constantine won the gloves in a card game with a demon and gave them to Batman because he "doesn't like fighting with his hands." [ 376 ]
Helmet of Fate (Formerly) Magic Eldritch Blast Flight Teleportation
Magic Eldritch Blast Flight Teleportation
Eldritch Blast
Flight
Teleportation
Mobius Chair (Formerly)
Black Lantern Ring (Formerly)
Yellow Lantern Ring (Formerly) [ 122 ]
Transportation
Batboat
Batcycle
Batmobile
Batplane
Bat-Copter
Weapons
Batarangs : His main set of weapons. Some of these bat shaped blades are electrically or sonically charged, while others are explosive. [ 377 ] He even carries batarangs that are made of Nth Metal that can disrupt the presence of ghostly entities, magical creatures, and even break enchantments. [ 378 ] [ 379 ]
Notes
Batman was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane , first appearing  in Detective Comics #27 . However, Batman first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Flashpoint (Volume 2) #5 by Geoff Johns and Andy Kubert .
Batman (Bruce Wayne) appears as Batman (Prime) a playable character in the Infinite Crisis video game.
Other less notable aliases Bruce has used are Bee Gee, [ 380 ] Knute Brody , [ 381 ] Dormouse, [ 381 ] The Batman Who Laughs , [ 184 ] Bat-Baby , [ 382 ] the God of Knowledge, [ 383 ] Sinestro , [ citation needed ] Batman of Zur-En-Arrh, [ 384 ] Night , [ 385 ] Wilson Texlon, [ 386 ] Wolf-Batman, [ 387 ] Nightwing [ 388 ] and Nightwing II. [ 389 ]
In The New 52 , Bruce spent seven years traveling the world training, having left Gotham at eighteen and first became Batman at the age of twenty-five. [ 390 ] [ 391 ] [ 392 ] However, because of DC Rebirth , this was changed so that Bruce spent five years traveling the world training, having left at sixteen and became Batman at age twenty-one. [ 11 ] [ 393 ]
During the New 52 , Bruce was twenty-five during the events of Zero Year . [ 394 ] [ 395 ] The Court of Owls storyline took place six years after the events Zero Year, making him thirty-one during this storyline. [ 396 ] Bruce was thirty-two during the events of Endgame . [ 397 ] Towards the end of the New 52 , A former member of the Whisper Gang states that its been five years since the events of The Court of Owls storyline, making Bruce thirty-six by the end of this run. [ 398 ] Following Rebirth , Bruce is at least thirty-nine years old. [ 399 ]
Cassandra Cain has refered to Bruce as her "father by choice" multiple times in the most recent Batgirl series [ 400 ] [ 401 ] [ 402 ] and other characters have done the same. [ 403 ] However, it remains unclear whether that means the adoption of her previous counterpart by Bruce remains true for this version of them, although it seems that they do share a father-daughter relationship regardless.
Trivia
Dream reveals to Batman that his influence is felt throughout the dream-world. He causes nightmares to the wicked and instills hope in people he has saved. [ 404 ]
Batman and Gordon used the red scarlet rotary Batphone during the early years of Batman's career to communicate with each other, a reference to the 60's series . Years later Batman upgraded it to be a red touch-screen phone. [ 405 ] [ 406 ]
Krypto likes and trusts Batman and even though he's more powerful than Batman; Bruce would still try to protect Krypto. [ 407 ]
Bronze Tiger has acknowledged that Batman's the superior fighter to him. Stating that he's the best in the world. [ 408 ]
Midnighter has admitted that he finds Batman awesome. [ 409 ]
Batman considers Superman his best friend, a sentiment that Superman shares as well, [ 410 ] and his favorite superhero. [ 411 ] [ 412 ] [ 413 ] Bruce also believes Superman is a better man than him. [ 414 ] Bruce has also called Alfred Pennyworth his best friend. [ 415 ]
Bruce has also called Alfred Pennyworth his best friend. [ 415 ]
Bruce provides allowances to his all of his kids, except Nightwing, who gets a stipend. [ 416 ]
Bruce once met George Clooney and claims that Clooney owes him a favor. [ 417 ] This is a reference to Clooney's portrayal of Bruce Wayne in the film Batman & Robin being panned by many fans.
Bruce is a cinephile and has a Letterboxd account. [ 418 ] He's also a fan of old western films. One of his favorite actors is Gary Cooper . [ 419 ]
Bruce's birthday is October 7. [ 420 ]
Bruce has been a vigilante for at least twenty-two years. [ 421 ] Around the time of " The Joker War ", Demitrius Korlee, Jr. states that it's been twenty-one years since Batman put his father in prison. [ 422 ]
Around the time of " The Joker War ", Demitrius Korlee, Jr. states that it's been twenty-one years since Batman put his father in prison. [ 422 ]
Amanda Waller considers Batman a metahuman , [ 215 ] though he does not fit the traditional or the expanded definition of the term.
Bruce isn't religious. He was raised Christian, but stopped believing in God after his parents were killed. He claims "I…put aside believing in…a deity." [ 423 ] [ 424 ] Bruce also admits that at times he wishes he could be a good Christian like his father was, but can't. [ 425 ] Bruce is Jewish on his mother's side of the family, something his uncle Jacob and cousin Kate still celebrate. [ 426 ] However, Bruce always celebrates Christmas instead of Hanukkah. [ 427 ]
Prior to losing a good portion of his fortune during the Joker War, Bruce's net worth was estimated to be over $100 billion. [ 428 ] Bruce has since been relegated to the status of a millionaire after he was removed from the board at Wayne Enterprises. [ 429 ] Following Zur's defeat, Bruce acquired the money Zur stored in multiple offshore accounts, bringing his net worth to a total of $3,120,926,002. Returning him to being a billionaire again. [ 430 ]
Batman has been shown to carry lollipops in his Utility Belt to help and distract children at emergency scenes. [ 431 ] Much to Dick Grayson and Superman's amusement, the lollipops were kept next to his smoke bombs for the longest time, so Bruce promised to change what pocket he used. [ 432 ]
Despite all his skills, Bruce was a terrible cook for a long time, not even being able to toast a crumpet without burning it. [ 433 ] It wasn't until after Alfred's death that he got better at it. [ 434 ] [ 435 ]
Bruce does keep shark repellent as part of his gear in the Batcave, a callback to the 1966 film . [ 436 ] While traveling through the multiverse, Bruce was given a replacement utility belt by his Earth-66 counterpart that contained a canister of shark repellent that Bruce used on a pair of rabid sharks. He believed this proved he had finally met a Batman more prepared than himself. [ 338 ]
Like in previous continuities, Bruce doesn't drink alcohol and instead fools people by drinking ginger ale and apple juice. [ 176 ] [ 437 ]
Bruce visits his parents' grave once a week. [ 60 ]
Bruce's blood type is O-. [ 438 ]
Bruce takes his coffee black and his tea with two sugars. [ 439 ] [ 440 ]
Bruce gained his Grapple Gun on his first year acting as Batman as a gift by Lucius Fox after he got severely injured during an fight with The Joker where he fell from an really high place. He then stopped using a rope and a hook after this. [ 441 ]
Recommended Reading
Batman (vol. 2)
Detective Comics (vol. 2)
Batman and Robin (vol. 2)
Justice League (vol. 2)
Batman (vol. 3)
Detective Comics (vol. 1)
Justice League of America (vol. 5)
Dark Nights: Metal
Justice League (vol. 4)
Dark Nights: Death Metal
Batman/Superman: World's Finest
Batman & Robin: Year One
Related
1 Appearances of Batman (Bruce Wayne)
Images featuring Batman (Bruce Wayne)
Quotations by or about Batman (Bruce Wayne)
Character Gallery: Batman (Bruce Wayne)
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 Batman (Volume 3) #20
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Batman (Volume 2) #10
↑ 3.0 3.1 Batman and Robin Annual (Volume 2) #1
↑ 4.0 4.1 Batman (Volume 2) #11
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 Batman (Volume 2) #21
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #24 – 27
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #12
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #4
↑ 9.0 9.1 All-Star Batman #3
↑ 10.0 10.1 Batman (Volume 2) #31
↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 11.3 Batman: The Knight #1
↑ Gotham Academy #7
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #33
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #25
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #26
↑ 16.0 16.1 16.2 Batman: The Dark Knight (Volume 2) #0
↑ Batman: The Knight #2
↑ Batman: The Knight #3
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #5
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #6
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #2
↑ Detective Comics #961
↑ 23.0 23.1 23.2 23.3 23.4 Batman: The Knight #4
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #51
↑ Batman: The Knight #5
↑ Batman: The Knight #6
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #52
↑ 28.0 28.1 28.2 Batman (Volume 2) #22
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #0
↑ 30.0 30.1 30.2 Batman (Volume 2) #23
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #27
↑ 32.0 32.1 32.2 Batman (Volume 3) #104
↑ Batman: The Knight #7
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #11 – Batman: Urban Legends #16
↑ 35.0 35.1 35.2 35.3 35.4 Batman: The Knight #8
↑ 36.0 36.1 36.2 36.3 36.4 Batman: The Knight #9
↑ Batman: Killing Time #4
↑ Batman: The Knight #10
↑ Batman: The Knight #10
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #105
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #0
↑ 42.0 42.1 Batman (Volume 2) #24
↑ New Talent Showcase 2018 #1
↑ 44.0 44.1 Batman (Volume 2) #0
↑ 45.0 45.1 Detective Comics Annual (Volume 2) #3
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #66
↑ Batman: Lost #1
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #25
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #26 – 27
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #29
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #30
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #32 – 33
↑ The Joker (Volume 2) #5
↑ Robins #6
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #18
↑ 56.0 56.1 Batman (Volume 2) #14
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #27
↑ 58.0 58.1 Batman (Volume 3) #32
↑ Batman: Killing Time #3
↑ 60.0 60.1 60.2 60.3 60.4 Nightwing (Volume 3) #0
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #100
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #79
↑ Batman & Robin Eternal (Volume  1)
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #129
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #130
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #130
↑ FCBD Dark Crisis Special Edition #0
↑ 69.0 69.1 New History of the DC Universe #2
↑ Robin Rises: Omega #1
↑ 71.0 71.1 Batman: Urban Legends #17
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #51
↑ The Joker 2021 Annual (Volume 2) #1
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #1
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #2
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #3
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #4
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #5
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #6
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #7
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #10
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #11
↑ Red Hood and the Outlaws #0
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #146
↑ Detective Comics #965
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #0
↑ Batwoman (Volume 2) #22 , Batman (Volume 2) #23.4: Bane , Batman: Knightfall
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #23.3: Ra's al Ghul and the League of Assassins , Batman: Legacy
↑ 89.0 89.1 89.2 Batman (Volume 3) #127
↑ 90.0 90.1 Batman (Volume 3) #136
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #136 — The Plans Below
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #0
↑ 93.0 93.1 93.2 Batman (Volume 2) #1
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #2
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #6
↑ 96.0 96.1 Batman (Volume 2) #7
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #8
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #3
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #7
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #8
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #12
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #13
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #15
↑ 104.0 104.1 Batman (Volume 2) #16 , Batgirl (Volume 4) #16 , Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #16 , Nightwing (Volume 3) #16 & Teen Titans (Volume 4) #16
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #17
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #6
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #7
↑ 108.0 108.1 Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #8
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #9
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #10
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #12
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #13
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #18
↑ Batman: The Dark Knight (Volume 2) #20
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #23
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #19 – 24
↑ Trinity of Sin: Pandora #1
↑ Trinity War
↑ Justice League Dark #22
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #23
↑ Forever Evil #3
↑ 122.0 122.1 122.2 Forever Evil #4
↑ Forever Evil #5
↑ Forever Evil #6
↑ Forever Evil: Arkham War
↑ Forever Evil Aftermath: Batman vs. Bane #1
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #25 – 28
↑ Batman Eternal #14
↑ Batman Eternal #27
↑ Batman Eternal #30
↑ Batman Eternal #34
↑ Batman Eternal #45 – 46
↑ Batman Eternal #50
↑ Batman Eternal #51
↑ Arkham Manor #1 – 6
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #34
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #35
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #36
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #37
↑ Robin Rises: Alpha #1
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #40
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #35
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #36
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #38
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #43
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #42
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #48
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #49
↑ 149.0 149.1 Batman (Volume 2) #50
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #3
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #4
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #6
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #9
↑ 155.0 155.1 Batman (Volume 3) #13
↑ 156.0 156.1 Batman (Volume 3) #15
↑ Justice League vs. Suicide Squad (Volume  1) & Justice League of America (Volume  5)
↑ Detective Comics #934
↑ 159.0 159.1 Detective Comics #937
↑ Detective Comics #943
↑ Detective Comics #952
↑ 162.0 162.1 Detective Comics #960
↑ Detective Comics #974
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #21
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #21
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #22
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #22
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #1
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #2
↑ Batman: Lost #1
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #3
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #6
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #24
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #35
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #36
↑ 176.0 176.1 176.2 Batman (Volume 3) #37
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #39
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #40
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #41
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #43
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #45 – 47
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #51
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #52 – 53
↑ 184.0 184.1 The Batman Who Laughs (Volume  2)
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #54
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #55
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #50
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #56 – 57
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #58
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #59
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #60
↑ 192.0 192.1 Doomsday Clock #2
↑ Doomsday Clock #3
↑ Doomsday Clock #5
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #6
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #12
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #25
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #34
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #39
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #95 – 97
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #99
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #74
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #100
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #102
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #103
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #104
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #105
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #11
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #33
↑ Batman 2022 Annual (Volume 3) #1
↑ Batman: The Brave and the Bold (Volume 2) #14
↑ Batman Eternal #48
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #10
↑ 215.0 215.1 Suicide Squad (Volume 5) #22
↑ Batman/Superman #30
↑ Worlds' Finest #20
↑ Justice League International (Volume 3) #3
↑ Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #5
↑ Detective Comics #996
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #51
↑ Detective Comics #985
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #140
↑ Dark Crisis: Worlds Without a Justice League - Batman #1
↑ Deathstroke (Volume 4) #31
↑ Batman: The Knight #6
↑ Batman Secret Files #1
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #3
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #4
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #34
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #8
↑ Bane: Conquest #2
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #22
↑ Batman: The World
↑ Batman: The Knight #5
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #118
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 3) #16
↑ Detective Comics #1019
↑ Batman: The Knight #2
↑ Batman: The World
↑ The Brave and the Bold: Batman and Wonder Woman #4
↑ Batman: The World
↑ Batman/Superman #30
↑ Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #2
↑ Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #5
↑ Detective Comics #1100
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #110
↑ All-Star Batman #12
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #139
↑ Superman: Man of Tomorrow #19
↑ 251.0 251.1 The Brave and the Bold: Batman and Wonder Woman #2
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #20
↑ Detective Comics #959
↑ Superman Unchained #6
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #28
↑ Batman: Universe #5
↑ Heroes in Crisis #2
↑ Dark Crisis: Worlds Without a Justice League - Batman #1
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #5
↑ Batman/Superman #29
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #43
↑ Detective Comics #1024
↑ 263.0 263.1 263.2 Batman (Volume 3) #138
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #127
↑ Strange Adventures (Volume 5) #10
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #36
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #6
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #122
↑ 269.0 269.1 269.2 Batman: Killing Time #3
↑ Detective Comics #949
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #81
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #13
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #21
↑ Batman/Superman #10
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #20
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #121
↑ Batman: Off-World #1 – 3
↑ Batman & Robin (Volume 2) #19
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #137
↑ Batman vs. Robin #3
↑ The Batman Who Laughs (Volume 2) #2
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #3
↑ 283.0 283.1 Batman (Volume 3) #146
↑ Detective Comics #1084
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #14
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #22
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #16
↑ 288.0 288.1 Detective Comics (Volume 2) #13
↑ Batman vs. Robin #4
↑ Detective Comics #1084
↑ Batman/Superman #13
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #112
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #14
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #16
↑ Robins #6
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #7
↑ Batman: The Knight #7
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #0
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #40
↑ [1]
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #8
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #30
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #18
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #30
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #2
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #25
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #11
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #19
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #6
↑ 310.0 310.1 Batman and Robin (Volume 3) #15
↑ 311.0 311.1 311.2 Batman (Volume 3) #130
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #21
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #19
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #20
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #34
↑ Batman & Robin Eternal #26
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #42
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #64
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #31
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #136
↑ Batman/Superman #4
↑ Batman: The Knight #6
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #13
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #5
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #130
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #2
↑ Batman: Rebirth #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #37
↑ Batman: The Knight #6
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #147
↑ Batman Secret Files #1
↑ Batman & Robin Eternal #17
↑ The Batman Who Laughs (Volume 2) #3
↑ Batman: The Knight #6
↑ Batman: The Knight #2
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #19
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #134
↑ 338.0 338.1 338.2 Batman (Volume 3) #135
↑ Batman/Catwoman: The Gotham War: Battle Lines #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #149
↑ Batman: One Bad Day - Bane #1
↑ Red Hood and the Outlaws (Volume 2) #1
↑ Batman vs. Robin #1
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #10
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #12
↑ Detective Comics #988
↑ New Talent Showcase 2018 #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #119
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #44
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #41
↑ Deathstroke (Volume 4) #32
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #64
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #65
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #21
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #33
↑ 356.0 356.1 Detective Comics #998
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #36
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #37
↑ Detective Comics #1027
↑ Tales of the Green Lantern Corps #2
↑ Batman: Gotham Nights #13
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #27
↑ Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #12
↑ Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #22
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #8
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #9
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #10
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #27
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #30
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #34
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #31
↑ Batman: Gotham Nights #20
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #149
↑ 375.0 375.1 Batman (Volume 3) #141
↑ Batman: The Detective #1
↑ Justice League: The Ultimate Guide
↑ Batman Eternal #6
↑ Batman Eternal #24
↑ Wonder Twins #1
↑ 381.0 381.1 Detective Comics #1000
↑ Detective Comics #1029
↑ Justice League: The Darkseid War
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #126
↑ Dark Crisis: Worlds Without a Justice League - Batman #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #132
↑ Titans: Beast World #3
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #116
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #117
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #21
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #24
↑ Batman: The Dark Knight (Volume 2) #0
↑ Batman #10
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #24
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #33
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #21
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #37
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #51
↑ Justice Society of America (Volume 4) #1
↑ Batgirl (Volume 6) #1
↑ Batgirl (Volume 6) #4
↑ Batgirl (Volume 6) #6
↑ Birds of Prey (Volume 5) #6
↑ Dark Night: A True Batman Story
↑ Detective Comics #995
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #128
↑ Batman/Superman #11
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #56
↑ Batman/Superman Authority Special #1
↑ DC Universe vs. The Masters of the Universe #4
↑ Detective Comics #1017
↑ Batman/Superman #3
↑ Batman/Superman #20
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #36
↑ Batman vs. Robin #1
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #50
↑ Detective Comics #1009
↑ DC Pride 2023 #1
↑ Adventures of the Super Sons #9
↑ Legends of the Dark Knight #10
↑ Detective Comics #1027
↑ Red Hood #51
↑ Robins #6
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #53
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #140
↑ The Penguin #7
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #87
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #93
↑ Batgirl (Volume 5) #50
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #149
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #3
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #89
↑ Batman Annual (Volume 3) #3
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #132
↑ Superman: Kal-El Returns Special #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #113
↑ The Penguin #9
↑ Batman Annual (Volume 3) #3
↑ Batman: The Brave and the Bold (Volume 2) #12
↑ Batman: The Brave and the Bold (Volume 2) #9
↑ Batman: The Brave and the Bold (Volume 2) #8
This character is or was an incarnation of or an ally of Batman , and a member of the Batman Family . This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Batman Family members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of one or more of the teams known as the Outsiders . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Outsiders members " category.

Garfield Logan (New Earth)
Beast Boy Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 1950s- 2011‎ Gallery Real Name Garfield Mark Logan Main Alias Beast Boy Other Aliases Changeling Relatives Mark Logan (father, deceased), Marie Logan (mother, deceased), Steven Dayton (Mento) (adoptive father), Rita Farr (Elasti-Girl) (adoptive mother), Matt Logan (cousin) Affiliation Teen Titans · Formerly Doom Patrol , Titans , Titans West , New Young Justice , Titans Los Angeles Base Of Operations Titans Tower , San Francisco Formerly Hollywood , California · Manhattan , New York Status Alignment Good Identity Public Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Actor Characteristics Gender Male Height 5' 8" Weight 150 lbs (68 kg) Eyes Green Hair Green Skin Green Origin Universe Earth-One · New Earth Creators Arnold Drake · Bob Brown First Appearance Doom Patrol #99 ( November, 1965 )
Beast Boy
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 1950s- 2011‎
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Skin
Origin
Universe
Creators
Garfield Logan , known primarily as Beast Boy but for a time as Changeling , is a green-skinned superhero who has the power to transform into any animal. Originally a member of the Doom Patrol , he joined the Teen Titans after the death of the other Patrollers.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin 1.2 Doom Patrol and Teen Titans 1.3 The Judas Contract 1.4 One Year Later 1.5 Final Crisis 1.6 Blackest Night
1.1 Origin
1.2 Doom Patrol and Teen Titans
1.3 The Judas Contract
1.4 One Year Later
1.5 Final Crisis
1.6 Blackest Night
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
3 Notes
4 Trivia
5 Related
6 External Links 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Origin
As a child, Garfield Logan contracted a rare illness called Sakutia and was cured by a serum from a green monkey. This serum had the unintended effect of turning his skin and hair green and gave him the ability to change into any animal form.
Doom Patrol and Teen Titans
Originally known as and reusing the alias, Beast Boy, he was adopted by Elasti-Girl and Mento , members of the Doom Patrol . [ 1 ] He later joined Titans West , and was part of the New Teen Titans assembled by Raven . Upon joining the latter, took the name Changeling. He remained with various incarnations of the team, forming a close friendship with Cyborg.
He later began using the name Beast Boy again. Following a failed attempt to recreate Titans West as " Titans L.A. ," he rejoined the main team.
He had also worked as an actor, playing the role of the alien Tork in the TV series Space Trek: 2022 . The series was abruptly canceled when it was sued for plagiarizing other science fiction shows.
The Judas Contract
Whatever team he is part of, he likes to joke around with people and make jokes of the situations the team get themselves into. However, this is only a facade. In reality, Beast Boy has suffered many hardships in his life. Both his real parents passed away, and his foster mother , whom Garfield became very close to, died in battle along with virtually all of the other Doom Patrol members, while Gar was also part of the team. His foster father was driven mad by a helmet he used to fight enemies. He also fell in love with Terra (a member of the Teen Titans) and was heartbroken to discover that she was a traitor working for Deathstroke . Even after her death, he refused to believe for a long time that she was a traitor and blamed Slade for using her, until they eventually sat down and came to an understanding. As a result of all of this, he used his jokes to cover the fact that he was scared of losing anyone else he grew close to. Despite all of his hardships, Garfield was friendly and upbeat.
His best friend was Cyborg. He was also close with Bette " Flamebird " Kane, a former Titan who helped save his life on an adventure in Los Angeles .
One Year Later
After trying to hold together a ragtag band of Titans, once Robin returned, Beast Boy left the team to rejoin the Doom Patrol and aid his adoptive parents. Following attacks on various former Titans, it was determined that the sons of Trigon were trying to destroy the group to establish a name for themselves. The Titans decided to reform to combat the threat. At the same time, Beast Boy tried to reconcile with Raven.
Final Crisis
The newly formed Titans slowly broke apart, with Gar rejoining the Teen Titans in order to polish them up, after seeing their performance under the leadership of Wonder Girl . [ 2 ] Raven followed soon after.
Blackest Night
During the events of Blackest Night , Beast Boy and the Titans were forced to fight Terra, who was resurrected from death as a member of the evil Black Lantern Corps [ 3 ] .
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Unique Physiology : As a young boy, Gar Logan contracted with a rare illness called Sakutia and was cured by a serum from a green monkey. This serum had the unintended effect of turning his skin and hair green but gave him the ability to change into any animal form. Terrestrial Metamorph : Currently, Beast Boy has the ability to transform into any imagined animal, unlike in his early years where he was supposed to know the species. He can change into extinct animals (dinosaurs), mythical (phoenix, dragon) and even animals from different planets. When he changes, it only takes a couple of seconds. It does not matter how big or small. It does not put strain on him to do this. He can stay in an animal's form indefinitely.  The only problem is no matter what form he takes the animal's skin and hair color will always be green. Beast Boy can also change into a hybrid, which has all the animals' powers rolled into one. He cannot control this so he does not turn into a hybrid unless absolutely needed. He has demonstrated the ability to transform into animals many times larger than their actual forms: among others, he has been seen transforming into a human-sized tarantula and a giant snake. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Bio-Fission : He has changed into multiple animals such as a swarm of fireflies and a group of barnacles. Animal Mimicry : Beast Boy has the power to mimic the abilities of any animal he knows of while he is in their form. The ability apparently gives him intuitive understanding of the animals and what abilities they have that may be useful in the situation. Animal Empathy
Terrestrial Metamorph : Currently, Beast Boy has the ability to transform into any imagined animal, unlike in his early years where he was supposed to know the species. He can change into extinct animals (dinosaurs), mythical (phoenix, dragon) and even animals from different planets. When he changes, it only takes a couple of seconds. It does not matter how big or small. It does not put strain on him to do this. He can stay in an animal's form indefinitely.  The only problem is no matter what form he takes the animal's skin and hair color will always be green. Beast Boy can also change into a hybrid, which has all the animals' powers rolled into one. He cannot control this so he does not turn into a hybrid unless absolutely needed. He has demonstrated the ability to transform into animals many times larger than their actual forms: among others, he has been seen transforming into a human-sized tarantula and a giant snake. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Bio-Fission : He has changed into multiple animals such as a swarm of fireflies and a group of barnacles.
Bio-Fission : He has changed into multiple animals such as a swarm of fireflies and a group of barnacles.
Animal Mimicry : Beast Boy has the power to mimic the abilities of any animal he knows of while he is in their form. The ability apparently gives him intuitive understanding of the animals and what abilities they have that may be useful in the situation.
Animal Empathy
Abilities
Martial Arts
Acting : As Rita Farr was an actress, he too learned some acting skills. He was a good enough actor to star in several TV shows.
Notes
Although this character was originally introduced during DC's Earth-One era of publication, their existence following the events of the 1985–86 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths remains intact. However, some elements of the character's Pre-Crisis history may have been altered or removed for Post-Crisis New Earth continuity, and should be considered apocryphal.
Trivia
Before being adopted by Steven Dayton (Mento) and Rita Farr (Elasti-Girl) , Beast Boy's legal guardian was Arsenal (Nicholas Galtry) . [ 9 ]
Beast Boy has had many nicknames over the years including, Craig Logan , [ 9 ] Beast-Brat , Green Jeans , Salad-head , Sprout , and Tork .
Beast Boy has also been shown to shape shift into demonic animals such as the time when Raven implanted Beast Boy with an evil seed of her father.
Garfield has described his acting career as "like Corey Feldman but with super-powers." [ 10 ]
One of the known home addresses Gar has used is 437 Franklin #202, Hollywood, CA. [ 11 ]
Rocky Davis keeps a Holy Bible in the confessional where he performs religious services with the name "Gar Logan" inscribed. This implies Garfield was at least at one point a practicing Christian . [ 12 ]
Related
655 Appearances of Garfield Logan (New Earth)
135 Images featuring Garfield Logan (New Earth)
29 Quotations by or about Garfield Logan (New Earth)
Character Gallery: Garfield Logan (New Earth)
External Links
Beast Boy at Wikipedia.org
Footnotes
↑ Doom Patrol #120
↑ Titans (Volume 2) #17
↑ Blackest Night: Titans #1
↑ Teen Titans #51
↑ Blackest Night: Titans #2
↑ Blackest Night: Titans #3
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 3) #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 3) #2
↑ 9.0 9.1 Doom Patrol #100
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 3) #15
↑ Legends of the DC Universe 80-Page Giant #2
↑ DCU: Last Will and Testament #1
Doom Patrol member This character has been at some point primarily a member of the Doom Patrol . A long-running team of rag-tag misfit heroes who work together for the common good, fighting evil against all odds. This template will categorize any article that includes it into the Doom Patrol members category.
This character is or was primarily a member of the younger superhero team known as the Teen Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Teen Titans members " category.
Young Justice member This character is or was a member of Young Justice , a team of younger super-heroes and side-kicks who fight crime together separately from their adult counterparts, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Young Justice members " category.
This character is or was primarily a member of the superhero team known as the Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Titans members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Titans West in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Titans West members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
Justice Society of America member This character has been a primary member of the Justice Society of America in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice Society of America members " category.

Dinah Laurel Lance (New Earth)
Black Canary Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 1930s- 2011 Gallery Real Name Dinah Laurel Lance Main Alias Black Canary Other Aliases Myra Kallen, [ 1 ] Crybaby Relatives Richard Drake (grandfather, deceased), Larry Lance (father, deceased), Dinah Drake (mother, deceased), Sin (adopted daughter) [ 2 ] Craig Windrow (ex-husband), Oliver Queen (ex-husband) Affiliation Birds of Prey · Formerly Justice League of America , Justice Society of America , Justice League Task Force , Justice League International , Team Arrow Base Of Operations Gotham City Formerly Hall of Justice · Justice League Watchtower · Star City · New York City · Metropolis · Oracle's Watchtower · Seattle · JSA Headquarters Status Alignment Good Identity Public Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Divorced Occupation Florist Characteristics Gender Female Height 5' 4" Weight 124 lbs (56 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Blond · Formerly Black Origin Universe Earth-Two · Earth-One · New Earth Creators Dennis O'Neil · Dick Dillin First Appearance Justice League of America #75 ( November, 1969 )
Black Canary
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 1930s- 2011
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Dinah Laurel Lance is the vigilante Black Canary , one of the world's foremost martial artists and possessor of the devastating "Canary Cry", a sonic scream that can shatter steel. She is the daughter of Golden Age hero Dinah Drake , the first Black Canary, and has long had a recurring partnership with the Green Arrow . She has been a founding member of the Justice League , and the Birds of Prey , of which she was once chairwoman and field leader respectively. Like her mother, she was also a member of the Justice Society .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origins 1.2 Justice League 1.3 Hard Traveling Heroes 1.4 Green Arrow's Disappearance 1.5 The Longbow Hunters 1.6 Birds of Prey 1.7 Green Arrow's Resurrection 1.8 Jade Canary 1.9 Proposal 1.10 Marriage 1.11 Final Crisis 1.12 Cry for Justice 1.13 Fall of Green Arrow 1.14 Blackest Night 1.15 Brightest Day
1.1 Origins
1.2 Justice League
1.3 Hard Traveling Heroes
1.4 Green Arrow's Disappearance
1.5 The Longbow Hunters
1.6 Birds of Prey
1.7 Green Arrow's Resurrection
1.8 Jade Canary
1.9 Proposal
1.10 Marriage
1.11 Final Crisis
1.12 Cry for Justice
1.13 Fall of Green Arrow
1.14 Blackest Night
1.15 Brightest Day
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Origins
Dinah Laurel Lance was born into a family of crime fighters. Her father Larry Lance , was a police officer, while her mother (also named Dinah ) was the original Black Canary .
Dinah chose to become a crime-fighter at the age of nineteen, despite her mother's wishes to the contrary. Following a rigorous training program under the watchful eye of the original Black Canary's close friend Ted Grant , also known as Wildcat , Dinah took up her mother's identity and adopted a costume as her own.
Just like her mother
Differentiating herself from her mother, Dinah was unique in the fact that she had the power to perform a 'Canary Cry', a super-powered shriek capable of shattering metal. However, the origin of how she got her power changed over time .
At one point , Dinah's 'Canary Cry' was the result of her being cursed by the criminal the Wizard during her childhood. However, due to mysterious changes in the timeline , these sonic powers were later said to have been a byproduct of Dinah possessing the metagene , making her a super-powered metahuman since birth.
Justice League
Main article: Justice League Origins
Not long after her debut as Black Canary, Dinah Lance became a founding member of the Justice League of America . It was Dinah who suggested the newly-formed name of the League, in deference to her mother's having been a member of the Justice Society of America . [ 3 ] It was through her new association with the Justice League that she first met Oliver "Ollie" Queen , also known as the Green Arrow .
Black Canary's membership in the JLA lasted for many years. Her friendship with Oliver Queen developed during this time as their feelings for one another became romantic. When Oliver chose to quit the League in order to continue his efforts in Star City on his own, [ 4 ] Dinah decided to join him there soon after.
Hard Traveling Heroes
Whilst Green Arrow and Green Lantern went on a road trip to rediscover America, Dinah was coincidentally motorcycling near Mount Rainier, Washington when she was run down by a motorcycle gang. Left unconscious in the road, she was rescued by a man named Joshua, who was actually a white supremacist cult leader who hypnotized her to his cause.
Green Arrow and Green Lantern came to the rescue but were defeated by Black Canary and the cult. When Dinah was put in the position to execute her lover Green Arrow, the hypnotic hold broken, and the heroes defeated the white supremacists. [ 5 ] Ashamed of being involved in such a despicable group—albeit against her will—Dinah devoted some of her time to work with the Native Americans on the reservation that Joshua had intended to murder. [ 6 ]
Dinah rekindled her romance with Ollie and joined the heroes on their road trip. Together they attended the trial and sentence of their friend Old Timer , [ 7 ] thwarted Sinestro and his sister , [ 8 ] stoped an evil man exploiting a metahuman child, [ 9 ] and helped Green Arrow's sidekick Speedy through his withdrawal from drug addiction. [ 10 ]
Green Arrow's Disappearance
After Green Arrow accidentally killed a man, he abandoned his heroic persona, along with his civilian life in Star City. [ 11 ] Hal sought Dinah's help to locate their missing friend. Her investigation inadvertently led her to a secret hate gathering, organized by none other than Joshua's sister. She was discovered and outnumbered by the angry mob who threw her off the roof of the building but was fortunately saved by Green Lantern. [ 12 ]
Continuing Black Canary's spate of bad luck, a drugged driver crashed into a phone booth when she was making a call. Badly injured and losing a lot of blood, Hal knew Ollie was one of the few people with her rare blood type that could save her. Hal had heard of the discovery of the Arrowplane wreckage, and from there, soon tracked him down in an isolated monastery. Despite his own shame and his contempt for society, it only took the mention Dinah's predicament to get Ollie to return home. Through a blood transfusion, Oliver saved Dinah's life, and she made a full recovery. [ 13 ]
Around this time, Black Canary became a founding member of the new Justice League International established by Maxwell Lord . [ 14 ]
The Longbow Hunters
Main article: Green Arrow: The Longbow Hunters
Oliver and Dinah went into business together and set up a flower shop in Seattle called " Sherwood Florist " in addition to fighting crime. Oliver was having something of a midlife crisis however, just as he was about to turn 43. He wanted to marry Dinah and have a real family with children of his own. Dinah turned down the idea, citing that their lives were too dangerous to have children.
Rescued from torture
During this time, Dinah was kidnapped by a drug dealer she was investigating. She was brutally tortured within an inch of her life until she was found and rescued by Ollie, who killed her torturer, altering his career as the Emerald Archer. [ 15 ]
When Dinah came out of the hospital, she was still emotionally traumatized by the incident. She learned that she had lost her ability to perform her Canary Cry. Later she finds out that she was now permanently infertile. [ 16 ]
Oliver was with her as she entered counseling. Dinah was initially hesitant to fight crime during the first few weeks after leaving the hospital, but, when she stopped a group of muggers on the bus, she felt back to her old self. She realized her biggest fear was that she would not be able to fight back anymore, and that fear was gone. [ 17 ]
Though the trauma had brought Dinah and Oliver closer together, Dinah's permanent infertility caused her great grief. Even though she didn't want kids, knowing she never could was heartbreaking. Their relationship was strained further when Dinah caught Oliver kissing their young assistant Marianne , and Dinah dumped him. [ 18 ]
Months later, Dinah was told of Oliver's death by his illegitimate son Connor Hawke . [ 19 ]
Birds of Prey
Birds of Prey
After his death, Dinah was contacted by Barbara Gordon , known as the computer genius Oracle , to work in Gotham City . Dinah accepted and moved across the country to start her new life. The pair formed a heroic partnership as the Birds of Prey .
As an indication of the new chapter in her life, Dinah decided to abandon the blonde wig she disguised herself with and instead began bleaching her natural hair, & grew it out. Also, because she had lost her ability to Canary Cry, Dinah began using handheld electronic weapons to simulate her iconic attack instead.
After a battle with Ra's al Ghul , Oracle urged Dinah to take a dip in the mystical Lazarus Pit . Doing so healed her injuries and restored her Canary Cry, as well as her ability to have a child. [ 20 ]
As time went on, the Birds expanded their membership, operating alongside notable female agents such as the Huntress , Gypsy , and Lady Blackhawk . Oracle also helped Dinah reopen her flower shop "Sherwood Florist" in a new location in Gotham.
Green Arrow's Resurrection
Dinah helped found a new incarnation of her mother's old team, the Justice Society of America , following the death of JSA founding member Wesley Dodds , [ 21 ] and developed a crush on the new Doctor Mid-Nite . However, she eventually resigned when she learned that her ex-boyfriend Oliver Queen had been resurrected by Parallax .
Dinah traveled to Star City , where the two former lovers were happily reunited. Their renewed relationship was short-lived however, as Dinah feared that Oliver would possibly try to take advantage of his new young female ward Mia Dearden . Dinah returned to Gotham City , where she continued to function with the Birds of Prey.
Jade Canary
Lady Shiva and Black Canary switch places
Over the course of a year , Dinah agreed to switch places with the assassin Lady Shiva as a way to possibly enrich both their perspectives. Dinah hoped that Shiva's membership as a Bird of Prey would soften the woman as warrior, while also believing that partaking in Shiva's training regiment in Vietnam would strengthen her own skills as a crimefighter.
Eventually, Dinah realized that following Lady Shiva's training path would require her to fundamentally change who she was as a person; therefore, she ended the training and returned to the United States. With her, she brought a young girl she had met named Sin , who also had begun the harsh grooming process to be Lady Shiva's successor. [ 22 ] Oliver Queen used his connections as the mayor of Star City to allow Sin to immigrate into the country.
Upon her return, Black Canary told Oracle that she would officially be leaving the Birds of Prey to devote herself to raising Sin in Star City. [ 23 ] She didn't give up super heroics completely, however; Dinah was named the chairwoman of the newly reformed Justice League of America due to her strong abilities and strategic mind.
Proposal
Green Arrow proposes to Black Canary
Dinah eventually returned to super heroics in Star City to aid Oliver, Connor, and Mia against the villains Roadblock and Merlyn . During the course of their mission, Dinah rekindled her relationship with Oliver yet again, feeling that he had truly changed over the course of his adventures. Oliver admitted to Dinah that many of the changes he made over the last year were due in most part for her, because he wanted to be a better man.
As the battle concluded, Oliver at last proposed to Dinah. Dinah however, needed time to consider her answer.
Shortly thereafter, Canary's charge Sin was kidnapped by Merlyn, and Green Arrow and Speedy sprung into action to get her back. To save the girl's life, Ollie was forced to fake Sin's death, keeping the knowledge of the plan between himself and Mia, knowing that doing so would sacrifice his relationship with Dinah.
The plan was a success: Sin's death was faked, and she was safely returned home. After the fact, Ollie admitted what he had done, and, recognizing that he was willing to sacrifice his own happiness to save her daughter's life, Dinah finally agreed to marry him. [ 24 ]
Marriage
You may now kiss the bride
Main article: Green Arrow and Black Canary's Wedding
After a great deal of compromise and strife, Dinah and Ollie agreed to get married inside the Secret Sanctuary , the original cave headquarters of the Justice League of America. Wedding guests included nearly everyone within the superhero community who were asked to attend the ceremony in-costume.
On the day of the wedding, the ceremony was interrupted by a phalanx of supervillains, who attempted to take out as many heroes as possible in one fell swoop. Nearly all of the villains were apprehended except for Deathstroke , who managed to escape. Despite the interruption, the ceremony concluded and Dinah Lance and Oliver Queen were married. [ 25 ]
On their wedding night, Oliver attacked Dinah unexpectedly, forcing her kill him with one of his arrows. As Dinah mourned for her husband, she spiraled and became rougher with criminals she caught, which worried those around her. Despite medical tests and even Hal's Ring confirming the body to be Ollie's, Dinah vehemently believed the man she killed was not Ollie. Batman took on the case, and, with the help of Dr. Mid-Nite, revealed the deceased as Everyman , a shape-shifter. [ 26 ]
After discovering Oliver was still alive and being held on Themyscira , Dinah rescued him with help from Connor and Mia.
Final Crisis
Now as a married couple, the duo continued to fight crime alongside one another, facing new challenges. They fought off Cupid , a vigilante with an obsessive crush on the Green Arrow, and Discord , a man with a grudge against the Canary for deafening him with her scream.
Shortly after, Darkseid attacked Earth and took control of it with the Anti-Life Equation . Dinah planned an attack on Darkseid from the Justice League Watchtower , but her plan was thwarted by a mind-controlled Green Arrow. She was forced to fight her husband and successfully freed him from the equation's control. [ 27 ]
In the aftermath of Darkseid's defeat, Gotham City had to cope with the apparent death of Batman . Dinah was summoned to Gotham along with other heroes to join the Network as a way to maintain order without him. [ 28 ]
Cry for Justice
Main article: Justice League: Cry for Justice
Canary had eventually resigned from her position as chairwoman of the Justice League but remained an active member. However, Hal Jordan and Ollie had felt the team had lost its direction and left to start their own rival Justice League.
Feeling betrayed by her husband, Dinah confronted him on the Justice League Watchtower, but their fight was cut short because Green Arrow had to warn his former teammates of a threat his team had discovered. The villain Prometheus was planning a coordinated attack against all of the world's heroes.
Before he could successfully warn the original League, Prometheus broke into the Watchtower and attacked the heroes, severing Red Arrow's arm and incapacitating Black Canary. The League was able to capture Prometheus before he could do any more damage but, in his interrogation, he admitted that his plan was to destroy every major city protected by a superhero, starting with Star City.
On cue, Prometheus' trigger man Electrocutioner activated an explosion that wiped out a massive portion of Star City. Green Arrow and Black Canary panicked and used the League's teleporters to provide assistance and look for survivors in the wreckage. In the destruction, Ollie and Dinah found the corpse of Roy Harper's young daughter Lian .
Dinah and Donna Troy delivered the news to Roy in the hospital as he recovered from his losing his arm. Oliver, meanwhile, took revenge on Prometheus by executing him with an arrow to the head.
Fall of Green Arrow
Oliver's murder of Prometheus was condemned by his friends in the superhero community, including Flash and Hal Jordan . Unrepentant, Oliver went on the run to avoid punishment. Dinah, wanting what she thought was best for her husband, joined Hal and Barry in searching the ruins of Star City for him. When they found him, he attacked them all, subduing them long enough to escape. He was searching for the man who pulled the trigger to destroy Star City, the Electrocutioner.
Oliver eventually calmed down, realizing the damage he was doing in his quest for revenge. He turned himself into the authorities for punishment.
Dinah visited Oliver in jailed and told him she understood that he needed time to be alone. However, still incredibly hurt by his actions, she gave him her ring back and told him their marriage was over.
Blackest Night
Main article: Blackest Night
The Earth was subject to another crisis when Nekron attempted to take over the universe with his army of undead Black Lanterns . Nekron was able to resurrect the dead as mind-controlled zombies, including people who were previously dead, like Green Arrow.
With the aid of Mia Dearden and Connor Hawke, Dinah fought her zombified Black Lantern ex-husband. The living corpse fed off of misery and exploited Black Canary's emotions to grow stronger, while Oliver watched powerless inside his own body. To emotionally hurt her, the Black Lantern claimed he had secretly been in love with the assassin Shado , who had raped him and sired him a son around the time Dinah was tortured by a drug dealer. He also called her a fool for believing he had ever changed.
Black Canary and the new Birds of Prey
Though the Black Lantern had the opportunity to execute Black Canary, Oliver regained control of his body for long enough to miss the shot and hit a liquid nitrogen container. Connor, under Dinah's instructions, then used the liquid nitrogen to freeze him until the Blackest Night was over.
Brightest Day
Main article: Brightest Day
Like her last major breakup with Oliver, Dinah left Star City to start a new life in Gotham City, reforming the Birds of Prey with Oracle. This time, they expanded their membership immediately to include Dove , Hawk , Huntress , and Lady Blackhawk .
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Canary Cry : Dinah possesses a metagene that gives her a potent sonic attack, able to stun foes or damage objects to the point of shattering steel. She possesses a incredible degree of control over her vocal cords. This enables her to mimic sounds and generate any sound she desires. The Canary Cry has been able to reach 300 decibels, which is enough to make a person's ears start bleeding even if they're not the attack's target.
Abilities
Acrobatics
Driving
Espionage
Peak Human Condition Peak Human Strength Peak Human Reflexes Peak Human Endurance Peak Human Stamina: When fighting alongside the Justice League of America , Dinah and the League fought non-stop, for nearly 24 hours. [ 29 ] Peak Human Agility Peak Human Balance
Peak Human Strength
Peak Human Reflexes
Peak Human Endurance
Peak Human Stamina: When fighting alongside the Justice League of America , Dinah and the League fought non-stop, for nearly 24 hours. [ 29 ]
Peak Human Agility
Peak Human Balance
Martial Arts : She is one of the most skilled martial artists on the planet. She has also been trained by Wildcat , who is formerly the Heavyweight Champion of the World, in the art of boxing , muay thai , capoeira , krav maga and hapkido . She has also been trained in Dragon Style Kung Fu and pressure point fighting by Richard Dragon . [ 30 ] Thanks to Wonder Woman, Dinah has been trained in Amazon martial arts, but is strictly a novice in that kind of fighting style. Due to her sparing with Wonder Woman, Dinah can perceive nanosecond reaction time, when fighting. [ 31 ] She has also received training from the Justice League of America , that teaches members how to fight at the very beginning. [ 32 ] [ 33 ] Dinah also took the time to be trained by Batgirl . [ 34 ] Dinah was praised for her skills by Lady Shiva , one of the best martial artists in the world. Shiva even suggested Dinah become her apprentice. [ 35 ] [ 36 ] Dinah is stated to be evenly matched with Batman . [ 37 ] Her martial art skills are claimed to be almost as formidable as the Kobra Cult is numerous. [ 38 ] Aikido [ 39 ] Boxing : Dinah was training in boxing by Ted Grant. Capoeira Dragon Style Kung Fu Hapkido Judo [ 40 ] [ 41 ] [ 42 ] Jujitsu Karate [ 43 ] [ 44 ] Krav Maga Muay Thai Savate Tae Kwon Do Wing Chun [ 45 ]
Aikido [ 39 ]
Boxing : Dinah was training in boxing by Ted Grant.
Capoeira
Dragon Style Kung Fu
Hapkido
Judo [ 40 ] [ 41 ] [ 42 ]
Jujitsu
Karate [ 43 ] [ 44 ]
Krav Maga
Muay Thai
Savate
Tae Kwon Do
Wing Chun [ 45 ]
Pedagogy
Tactical Analysis : Dinah is also considered a strong leader and strategic thinker, which has led to her being made Chairwoman of the JLA. [ 46 ]
Mental Resistance : After an attack by the Key involving telepathy, mind control and illusions. Batman suggested that the League should train with Martian Manhunter to combat this vulnerability, for future attacks. [ 47 ] Dinah's shown utilizing this training when scaling up a building while fighting against the Key's influence. [ 48 ]
Weaponry Archery [ 49 ]
Archery [ 49 ]
Music : Dinah practiced the harmonica as it was a perfect way to strengthen her breathing and vocal cords. [ 50 ]
Multilingualism : Dinah can speak English and Japanese. [ 51 ]
Weaknesses
Speech Dependency : Dinah's Canary Cry is a destructive attack but if she is gagged, deprived of air or otherwise unable to use her voice, she is unable to use her powers. [ 52 ] [ 53 ] [ 54 ] [ 55 ] [ 56 ]
Trauma-Related Power Loss : Dinah permanently lost her ability to perform her Canary Cry due to the trauma of her brutal kidnapping during Longbow Hunters [ 57 ] . Her Canary Cry was only restored by the waters of the Lazarus Pit . [ 58 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Body Armor
Oracle Tech : Necklace and earrings used as communication devices from Oracle.
Transportation
Black Canary's Motorcycle
Weapons
Various Martial Art Weapons
Canary Cry Bomb (Formerly) During the time she was without her actual Canary Cry, Dinah carried round bombs that would emit a similar loud sonic sound.
Notes
Although this character was originally introduced during DC's Earth-One era of publication, their existence following the events of the 1985–86 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths remains intact. However, some elements of the character's Pre-Crisis history may have been altered or removed for Post-Crisis New Earth continuity, and should be considered apocryphal.
In Pre-Crisis canon prior to 1983's Justice League of America #220 , it was believed that the Black Canary who joined the Justice League of America on Earth-One in 1969 was the same woman who had previously been a member of Earth-Two 's Justice Society of America . In that comic, it was revealed that the original Black Canary had died following the events of Justice League of America #74 , with her daughter unknowingly taking her place as she had been given the mystically-transferred memories of her mother.
Trivia
Dinah calls Barbara Gordon the best friend she's ever had. [ 59 ]
Dinah self-identifies as a Christian , stipulating "it's complicated." [ 60 ]
Dinah shared a kiss with the Flash and Batman . [ 61 ] [ 62 ]
Dinah was in her twenties during the early years of the Justice League of America . [ 63 ]
Prior to and during her heroic career Dinah wore a blond wig to hide her identity and mislead her enemies. Later, she bleached her hair blond instead of concerning herself with a wig.
Dinah plays a harmonica which she uses to strengthen her breathing and vocal cords. This is a form of training for her Canary Cry. [ 64 ]
Dinah has a rare Rh-negative blood type, the same as her lover, Green Arrow . [ 13 ]
Dinah secured a job as a physical education teacher at Meadowhill School before its destruction. [ 9 ]
Dinah's phone number is (555)1732-4516. [ 65 ]
Dinah was 19 years old when she first became Black Canary. [ 66 ]
Related
1,228 Appearances of Dinah Laurel Lance (New Earth)
329 Images featuring Dinah Laurel Lance (New Earth)
55 Quotations by or about Dinah Laurel Lance (New Earth)
Character Gallery: Dinah Laurel Lance (New Earth)
Footnotes
↑ The Brave and the Bold #91
↑ Black Canary (Volume 3) #3
↑ JLA: Year One #1
↑ JLA Incarnations #3
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 2) #78
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 2) #79
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 2) #81
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 2) #82
↑ 9.0 9.1 Green Lantern (Volume 2) #83
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 2) #86
↑ The Flash #217
↑ The Flash #218
↑ 13.0 13.1 The Flash #219
↑ Justice League #1 – Justice League International #7
↑ Green Arrow: The Longbow Hunters (Volume )
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 2) #34
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 2) #1 – Green Arrow (Volume 2) #3
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 2) #75
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 2) #101
↑ Birds of Prey #34
↑ JSA: Secret Files and Origins #1 ; JSA #1 – JSA #25
↑ Birds of Prey #95
↑ Birds of Prey #99
↑ Black Canary (Volume  3)
↑ Green Arrow and Black Canary Wedding Special #1
↑ Green Arrow and Black Canary #1
↑ Final Crisis #6
↑ Batman: Battle for the Cowl #1
↑ JLA: Year One #11
↑ Richard Dragon #7
↑ Birds of Prey #68
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 2) #212
↑ Identity Crisis #3
↑ Birds of Prey #61
↑ Birds of Prey #63
↑ Birds of Prey #64
↑ Justice League of America #190
↑ JLA Incarnations #3
↑ Black Canary (Volume 3) #2
↑ Green Arrow Annual (Volume 2) #1
↑ Batman Secret Files and Origins #1
↑ Birds of Prey #58
↑ Justice League of America #187
↑ Justice League of America #191
↑ JSA #14
↑ JLA: Year One #12
↑ JLA #9
↑ JLA #124
↑ Silver Age #1
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 2) #12
↑ Black Canary (Volume 3) #1
↑ Birds of Prey #50
↑ Birds of Prey #76
↑ Identity Crisis #3
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 2) #15
↑ Vixen: Return of the Lion #5
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 2) #34
↑ Birds of Prey #34
↑ Birds of Prey #99
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 3) #34
↑ JLA: Year One #11
↑ Birds of Prey #90
↑ JLA Incarnations #3
↑ The Lightning Saga
↑ Justice League International #17
↑ JLA: Year One #1
Birds of Prey member This character is or was a member of the Birds of Prey , a team of female super-heroes that go on special missions across the world, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Birds of Prey members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
Justice Society of America member This character has been a primary member of the Justice Society of America in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice Society of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Green Arrow family of vigilante super-heroes, who fight crime using archery and martial arts. They are a loose connection brought together through family bonds and shared experiences. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Team Arrow members ."

Blue Beetle(disambiguation)
Jaime Reyes ( 2011 - Present ) Jaime Reyes Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Jaime Reyes ( 2011 - Present )
Blue Beetle is the legacy name of several super-heroes in the DC Universe .
Dan Garrett is the original version, an archaeologist who discovers and uses the Blue Beetle Scarab to fight crime.
Ted Kord was his successor, who took up his mentor's mantle using martial arts and gadgetry when he couldn't unlock the scarab's power, eventually becoming a member of Justice League International , Living Assault Weapons and Super Buddies .
Jaime Reyes is the current Beetle, a teenager who uses the scarab to construct an exo-skeleton and joins the Teen Titans .
Dan Garret (later revamped as Dan Garrett by Charlton Comics ) was created by Charles Nicholas , first appearing in Mystery Men Comics #1 ( 1939 ). Ted Kord was created by Steve Ditko , first appearing in Captain Atom #83 ( 1966 ). Jaime Reyes was created by Keith Giffen , John Rogers and Cully Hamner and first appeared in Infinite Crisis #3 ( 2006 ).
Contents
1 Other versions
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Post-Crisis Multiverse 2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Elseworlds 2.6 Alternate Timelines 2.7 Possible Futures
2.1 The New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Post-Crisis Multiverse
2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Elseworlds
2.6 Alternate Timelines
2.7 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 The Brave and the Bold Multiverse 3.2 Young Justice 3.3 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 3.4 DC Extended Universe 3.5 Others
3.1 The Brave and the Bold Multiverse
3.2 Young Justice
3.3 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
3.4 DC Extended Universe
3.5 Others
4 Comics
5 Other Media Titles
6 See Also
Other versions
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
The Brave and the Bold Multiverse
Young Justice
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
DC Extended Universe
Others
Comics
See Also: Blue Beetle Titles
Other Media Titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Blue Beetle
Cover Gallery: Blue Beetle
Ted Kord
Dan Garrett
Jaime Reyes
Black Beetle
Red Beetle
Green Beetle
Gold Beetle

Michael Carter (New Earth)
Booster Gold Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 1950s- 2011‎ Gallery Real Name Michael Jon "Booster" Carter Main Alias Booster Gold Other Aliases Supernova , Booster , Goldstar , Waverider Relatives Daniel Carter (Supernova, 21st century ancestor) Rose Levin (21st century ancestor) Jon Carter (Supernova, father) Ellen Carter (mother, deceased) Michelle Carter (Goldstar, twin sister) Rip Hunter (son) Rani (adopted daughter) Affiliation Justice League International , Time Masters · formerly Conglomerate , Extreme Justice , Super Buddies , Booster Gold International (BGI) , Justice Society International , Justice Arcana Base Of Operations Metropolis , Earth , 21st Century , formerly Gotham City , 25th Century Status Alignment Good Identity Public Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Divorced Occupation Businessman Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 5" Weight 215 lbs (98 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Blond Origin Universe New Earth · Earth-One Creators Dan Jurgens First Appearance Booster Gold #1 ( February, 1986 )
Booster Gold
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 1950s- 2011‎
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Michael Carter, alias Booster Gold was born on December 29th, in the year 2442. Using the technology he stole from the 25th Century , Michael became a superhero based in the city of Metropolis . Saving the life of the President of the United States Ronald Reagan on his first adventure rewarded him with instant fame, which he cashed in on, becoming quite wealthy.  Unfortunately, Booster's manager stole a large amount of his money, leaving him with only a little.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origins 1.2 Goldstar, Inc. 1.3 Justice League International 1.4 Extreme Justice 1.5 Super Buddies 1.6 OMAC Project 1.7 52 1.8 Time Masters 1.9 Flashpoint 1.10 Futures End 1.11 Convergence
1.1 Origins
1.2 Goldstar, Inc.
1.3 Justice League International
1.4 Extreme Justice
1.5 Super Buddies
1.6 OMAC Project
1.7 52
1.8 Time Masters
1.9 Flashpoint
1.10 Futures End
1.11 Convergence
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
4 Trivia
5 Recommended Reading
6 Related
7 External Links 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Origins
Michael Carter and his sister Michelle Carter were born as twins to a loving mother and an irresponsible father in Gotham City in the 25th Century . On their 4th birthday, their father left the household to pursue his true love, gambling, leaving a huge gambling debt behind for the struggling family. Michael became a football player in college with the nickname "Booster", hoping that he would make it into the big leagues, when his mother was suffering from a debilitating disease that required a treatment that his family could not afford. Turning to the same vice as his father, Michael made bets and purposely threw games in order to earn enough money for the treatment.  After his mother was cured, Michael was arrested and put in jail for gambling, instantly breaking his mother's heart.
After he was set free from jail, Michael managed to get a job as a security officer for the Metropolis Space Museum, where he saw images of superheroes from the 20th Century that were legends in his time.  Deciding to change his life and become a superhero himself, Michael stole some artifacts from the museum as well as the security robot Skeets and used Rip Hunter's time machine to travel back to the late 20th Century.  It was there that he made his public debut, saving the life of the President of the United States Ronald Reagan from the Chiller as the new superhero Goldstar .  Nervous, Michael misspoke on live television and got stuck with the name Booster Gold instead.
Goldstar, Inc.
Michael hired an agent, Dirk Davis and started Goldstar, Inc. in Metropolis, with Trixie Collins as their secretary. Booster Gold was on his way to becoming rich and famous, not knowing that he had made an enemy out of The 1000 . He eventually fought their leader, the Director .
Justice League International
Main article: Justice League: A New Beginning
Booster Gold was a main player in the revamped Justice League International , run by Maxwell Lord , during the late 1980's. Booster teamed up with Ted Kord , the Blue Beetle, who quickly became a good friend, together causing some major trouble for the League, and drawing them into some of their funnier adventures, including setting up a casino on a living island. Frustrated at the lack of respect he received from his teammates, Booster quit the JLI and formed The Conglomerate , though he would later return to the League's ranks. During the battle with Doomsday (a name that Booster coined to describe the monster who would eventually kill Superman ), his suit was destroyed, leaving him no longer able to function as a superhero. Ted came to the rescue and built him a new suit, although it was much bulkier and tended to malfunction.  During a battle with the Overmaster , Booster was mortally wounded, losing his suit and his right arm.  Ted built Booster another suit, which also served as a life-support system and included a cybernetic arm.
Extreme Justice
Main article: Extreme Justice
This incarnation of the Justice League eventually fell apart and Booster Gold joined with Extreme Justice . It was during his time with this team that Booster made a deal with Monarch , who restored his arm and health. Another new costume was constructed, this time in part from Skeets, bringing Booster back to his former power level.
Super Buddies
Booster was briefly a member of the Super Buddies, a group reunited by Maxwell Lord with former JLI members. He mentioned be married with a rich elderly woman after his bankruptcy and JLI dissolution. [ 1 ]
OMAC Project
Main article: OMAC Project
After the death of Sue Dibny , Booster, becoming disillusioned with his fellow heroes, gave up the Booster Gold identity and returned to normal civilian life.  This did not last long, as he teamed up with his friend Ted to find who was manipulating Kord Industries , an investigation that led to Ted's death and Booster's temporary hospitalization.  During the following crisis, Booster brought together former team members of his version of the Justice League to help find the killers. After this group encountered a trio of O.M.A.C.s , which resulted in the death of Rocket Red IV and the hospitalization of Fire , as well as the destruction of the power source of Booster's suit, Booster left the group, claiming that he was going "home."
52
Main article: 52
Soon thereafter, however, Booster reappeared, with a once-more functioning suit as well as Skeets, who had been previously destroyed, seeking the Blue Beetle Scarab .  He found it fused to the spine of teenager Jaime Reyes , whom he promptly brought to the Batcave to aid in Batman's mission to find and destroy Brother Eye .
The end of Booster?
After Superman lost his powers fighting Superboy-Prime , Booster attempted to fill the void he had left in Metropolis.  Signing many lucrative sponsorship contracts, he used Skeets' knowledge of the future to be in exactly the right place at the right time to perform heroic deeds.  He also, on at least one occasion, hired an actor to pose as a supervillain and subsequently "defeated" him.  The actor later came forward, however, and Booster's credibility was immediately lost.
When a ballostro brought a nuclear submarine into the middle of Metropolis, Booster tried to reclaim his lost glory by defeating the beast.  However, he had no luck until Supernova arrived to teleport the creature away.  The submarine had been damaged, and was in immediate danger of setting off a nuclear explosion in the middle of the city.  Booster managed to lift the vessel in his forcefield and fly it out of harm's way.  However, he was seemingly killed in the blast. [ 2 ]
It was later revealed that Booster had conspired with Rip Hunter and used his time-traveling capabilities to fake his own death. The Booster skeleton found at the blast-site was actually his dessicated remains from his death at some point in the future.  Aware that his longtime robotic ally, Skeets, had apparently turned traitor, Booster secretly adopted the heroic identity of Supernova and traveled backwards in time to a point prior to his apparent "death" in order to ferret out the cause of Skeets' malfunction. [ 3 ]
First appearing as Supernova eight weeks after the defeat of Alexander Luthor and Superboy-Prime , Booster used the identity to form various good deeds without the stigma attached to the Booster Gold identity, as well as collect weaponry for Rip Hunter.  While the Daily Star was the first to name the new hero "Supernova," Clark Kent won the exclusive first interview for the Daily Planet by jumping out the window of the office of Perry White .
While battling Skeets, Supernova revealed himself as Booster Gold.  While Booster returned to the Booster Gold identity, Rip passed along the mantle of Supernova to Booster's 21st century ancestor, Daniel Carter .
Following the final, Multiverse-saving fight against Mr. Mind , the villain who had taken over Skeets, Booster left Rip's employ and had Skeets repaired by Will Magnus .  He also arranged to live with Daniel in exchange for letting Daniel keep the Supernova suit.
Time Masters
Eight weeks after defeating Mr. Mind, Booster seeks out acceptance into the Justice League. However, Rip Hunter has other plans and attempts to recruit Booster to aid him in repairing the time stream.  However, this would require Booster to sacrifice his reputation, so Booster refuses.  But when his certificate electing him into the Justice League turns into Hal Jordan's death certificate, Booster realizes what's really important.  He drops his certificate and tells the League that he was only petitioning for membership so he could brag about turning them down.
Booster returned to Rip's lab and agreed to work for him on one condition: that Rip will allow him to change history to save some people important to him, starting with "the best friend [he] ever had ."  Though Booster and Rip manage to rescue Ted Kord, it is later revealed that with out the death of Ted Kord, Max Lord accomplishes his early plan in killing many of the DCU's heroes.  Ted Kord then decides to sacrifice himself and returns to the time were he is killed by Maxwell Lord, in order to save the heroes of Earth.  But Booster was not left alone, as Rip Hunter surprises Booster by rescuing Booster's sister Michelle right before she died in one of Booster Gold's early adventures.
It is later revealed that Booster is in fact Rip Hunter's father. Booster is unaware of this, and Rip Hunter hasn't told him. [ 4 ]
Flashpoint
In an effort to save his mother's life from the Reverse-Flash , Barry Allen unknowingly changes reality, creating a new world in which his friends' lives are drastically different.
After the Time Masters: Vanishing Point event, Rip Hunter informed them that someone snuck in and left a message on the chalkboard about the altered timeline. [ 5 ]
When Booster and Skeets awaken, they are the only ones who remember in original timeline. Booster travels to Coast City , but US army attack him believing he is part of an Atlantean invasion. Skeets is damaged when Booster  is attacked by the military's bio-weapon known as Project Six (Doomsday) . [ 6 ]
Booster, during the fight with the creature, discovers he is being controlled by General Nathaniel Adam , and during the battle he saves Alexandra Gianopoulos from the creature. Booster learns the timeline has been changed, suspecting that Professor Zoom was behind it. Booster travels to Gotham City, with Alexandra and the monster both following him. It is revealed that Alexandra has the power to absorb other metahuman powers. The mind control interface of the monster is severed by Alexandra, which causes it's true destructive personality to awake. [ 7 ] The creature attacks and nearly kills Booster, only surviving as Project Six is at a more basic level of evolution than then mainstream Doomsday possess. The weapon then begins to rampage, killing innocent people, but after recovering, Booster places the mental control helmet back on the creature, giving General Adam back control.  General, believing that creature was naturally mindless and incapable of doing anything without being under the control, decided that it was Booster's fault and decided to capture him. [ 8 ] General Adam then decided to have Booster Gold interrogated. Booster shot down a girder, knocking the control helmet off him. At that moment the image of  " Project Superman " appears on a computer screen, his true personality is awaken. The creature then rampages through the facility looking for the Kryptonian known as Subject One . Alexandra Gianopoulos puts on the control helmet, forcing him to rip open his own chest. [ 9 ]
The pair travel to England and Alexandra saves Booster Gold from an Atlantean attack, leaving Booster to go to Vanishing Point . As history resets itself, his memory of the event is now a little hazy. Alexandra, however, survived and traveled back in time to before the Time Masters: Vanishing Point event. She lefts the message regarding the altered timeline on Rip's chalkboard before vanishing. [ 9 ]
Futures End
Main article: Futures End
Booster's powers become unstable and he is teleported to different timelines. He is first sent to Prime Earth, where he encounters himself from that world and that worlds Blue Beetle . He is then teleported to Pre-Zero Hour 31st century Metropolis and finally to Deimos' castle, where he is captured. [ 10 ]
Convergence
He is teleported to Earth-Four and is attacked by that worlds' Captain Atom , who believes he is a villain. [ 11 ] He is rescued by his Prime Earth-self and Rip Hunter. He later reunites with Ted Kord [ 12 ] and informs him he is aging at an accelerated rate. He is saved when his Prime Earth self takes him to vanishing point and he becomes Waverider. He then teleports Blue Beetle and his Prime Earth-self to their respective worlds and hides Goldstar and Rip Hunter in an undisclosed location. [ 13 ] Before he left Convergence, he left a prank and note for Ted's birthday. [ 14 ]
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Quantum Energy Physiology Time Travel Retrocognition Energy Projection Flight Intangibility Temporal Resistance
Time Travel Retrocognition
Retrocognition
Energy Projection
Flight
Intangibility
Temporal Resistance
Abilities
Athletics
Business Management
Gymnastics [ 15 ]
Experienced Combatant : Even after being blasted and stabbed with a knife, Carter managed to one-shot Chronos with a punch, even when he was behind him. [ 16 ] [ 15 ] Booster managed to hold his own in a fist fight with Maxwell Lord for a while. [ 17 ]
Historiography
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Equipment Diagram
Legion Flight Ring : As the name suggests, this ring provides Booster with flight . It is the only piece of equipment stolen from the Space Museum which has survived to the most recent version of Booster's suit unscathed. [ 18 ] [ 19 ]
Power Suit : In lieu of any metahuman powers, Booster Gold uses an advanced microcircuitry-powered all-purpose combat suit that allows him a wide range of options to use in combat. Enhanced Durability : The suit is extremely durable, very lightweight, and easy to wear.  The suit itself is able to withstand bullets without losing its integrity (although being shot hurts). Superhuman Strength : The microcircuitry woven into the mesh affords Booster a high measure of super-strength, enough to easily shift twenty tons - and a great deal more if he exerts himself.  However, Booster must take into account the fact that attempting to lift things that heavy often causes them to fall apart under their own weight. [ 18 ] [ 19 ] Force Field Generation : The suit is capable of generating a force-field that in prior incarnations was powerful enough to take a direct punch from Doomsday and leave Booster intact (this fried the force-field though, and eventually the suit didn't fare much better).  It remains constant at that level for the current incarnation. [ 20 ] Time-Travel Circuitry : At some point between The OMAC Project and 52 , Booster had time-travel circuitry built into his suit, enabling him to travel through the time stream, both into the past and the future.  The suit has since been upgraded by Rip Hunter to enable him to traverse chronal anomalies without any adverse effects. Gauntlets : The suit is able to provide powerful energy blasts, via blasters in the costume's gauntlets.  At their highest setting, the blasts are capable of plowing through two solid feet of concrete. Visor Devices : Booster's visor is outfitted with both sensory amplification devices (both auditory and visual) and a HUD for targeting and threat-identification. Enhanced Vision : The visor provides broad scanning along the electromagnetic spectrum, providing infrared, ultraviolet, and X-ray vision. Enhanced Hearing
Enhanced Durability : The suit is extremely durable, very lightweight, and easy to wear.  The suit itself is able to withstand bullets without losing its integrity (although being shot hurts).
Superhuman Strength : The microcircuitry woven into the mesh affords Booster a high measure of super-strength, enough to easily shift twenty tons - and a great deal more if he exerts himself.  However, Booster must take into account the fact that attempting to lift things that heavy often causes them to fall apart under their own weight. [ 18 ] [ 19 ]
Force Field Generation : The suit is capable of generating a force-field that in prior incarnations was powerful enough to take a direct punch from Doomsday and leave Booster intact (this fried the force-field though, and eventually the suit didn't fare much better).  It remains constant at that level for the current incarnation. [ 20 ]
Time-Travel Circuitry : At some point between The OMAC Project and 52 , Booster had time-travel circuitry built into his suit, enabling him to travel through the time stream, both into the past and the future.  The suit has since been upgraded by Rip Hunter to enable him to traverse chronal anomalies without any adverse effects.
Gauntlets : The suit is able to provide powerful energy blasts, via blasters in the costume's gauntlets.  At their highest setting, the blasts are capable of plowing through two solid feet of concrete.
Visor Devices : Booster's visor is outfitted with both sensory amplification devices (both auditory and visual) and a HUD for targeting and threat-identification. Enhanced Vision : The visor provides broad scanning along the electromagnetic spectrum, providing infrared, ultraviolet, and X-ray vision. Enhanced Hearing
Enhanced Vision : The visor provides broad scanning along the electromagnetic spectrum, providing infrared, ultraviolet, and X-ray vision.
Enhanced Hearing
Transportation
Rip Hunter's Time Sphere
Trivia
Booster Gold identifies himself as an atheist . [ 21 ]
Booster Gold is the older twin, but Goldstar is more responsible for the two. [ 22 ]
According to Blue Beetle, Booster Gold thinks to himself in Esperanto , implying that perhaps Esperanto is the language of all 25th Century natives. [ 23 ]
Booster managed to gain Batman's respect and acknowledged Booster as a true hero who became the best he could be. [ 24 ] [ 25 ]
Recommended Reading
Booster Gold Recommended Reading Booster Gold (Volume  1) Booster Gold (Volume  2) 52 (Volume  1) Justice League (Volume  1) Justice League America (Volume  1) Formerly Known as the Justice League (Volume  1)
Booster Gold (Volume  1)
Booster Gold (Volume  2)
52 (Volume  1)
Justice League (Volume  1)
Justice League America (Volume  1)
Formerly Known as the Justice League (Volume  1)
Related
525 Appearances of Michael Carter (New Earth)
214 Images featuring Michael Carter (New Earth)
35 Quotations by or about Michael Carter (New Earth)
Character Gallery: Michael Carter (New Earth)
External Links
Boosterrific!--a fansite
Footnotes
↑ Formerly Known as the Justice League #1
↑ 52 Week Fifteen
↑ 52 Week Thirty-Seven
↑ Booster Gold #1,000,000
↑ Time Masters: Vanishing Point #6
↑ Booster Gold (Volume 2) #44
↑ Booster Gold (Volume 2) #45
↑ Booster Gold (Volume 2) #46
↑ 9.0 9.1 Booster Gold (Volume 2) #47
↑ Booster Gold: Futures End #1
↑ Convergence: Blue Beetle #1
↑ Convergence: Booster Gold #1
↑ Convergence: Booster Gold #2
↑ Convergence: Justice League International #2
↑ 15.0 15.1 Booster Gold #18
↑ Booster Gold (Volume 2) #17
↑ Justice League: Generation Lost #24
↑ 18.0 18.1 52 #1
↑ 19.0 19.1 52 #3
↑ 52 #2
↑ Justice League International Annual #2
↑ Booster Gold (Volume 2) #0
↑ Formerly Known as the Justice League #4
↑ Booster Gold (Volume 2) #1000000
↑ Justice League: Generation Lost #24
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
Justice Society of America member This character has been a primary member of the Justice Society of America in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice Society of America members " category.

Brainiac(disambiguation)
Vril Dox ( 2011 - Present ) Vril Dox Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Vril Dox ( 2011 - Present )
Brainiac is a super-intelligent techno-organic alien being from the planet Colu who has fought Superman many times. Extremely advanced mental abilities that have allowed him to work through numerous robotic and even human proxies make him a dangerously formidable opponent. It is difficult to tell whether you are dealing with the original Brainiac, or one of his many drones. His obsession with knowledge has led him to shrink down many cities to bottle size for transportation on his Skull Ship in order to study them, including Kandor on Krypton . He is a frequent ally of Lex Luthor and has been a member of both the Anti-Justice League and the Legion of Doom .
Brainiac was created by Otto Binder and Al Plastino , first appearing in Action Comics #242 ( 1958 ).
Contents
1 Successors
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Pre- Flashpoint Multiverse 2.4 Pre- Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Hypertime 2.6 Elseworlds 2.7 Alternate Timelines 2.8 Possible Futures
2.1 The New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Pre- Flashpoint Multiverse
2.4 Pre- Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Hypertime
2.6 Elseworlds
2.7 Alternate Timelines
2.8 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 DC Animated Universe 3.2 Smallville Multiverse 3.3 Arrowverse 3.4 Lego Dimensions 3.5 Injustice Multiverse 3.6 DC Super Hero Girls Multiverse 3.7 Others
3.1 DC Animated Universe
3.2 Smallville Multiverse
3.3 Arrowverse
3.4 Lego Dimensions
3.5 Injustice Multiverse
3.6 DC Super Hero Girls Multiverse
3.7 Others
4 Comics
5 See Also
Successors
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre- Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre- Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Smallville Multiverse
Arrowverse
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
DC Super Hero Girls Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also
Milton Fine
Telos
Pulsar Stargrave
Bizarro Brainiac
Brainiac's Daughter
Brainiac 2
Brainiac 3
Brainiac 4
Brainiac 5
Brainiac 6
Brainiac 8
Brainiac 13

Leonard Snart (Prime Earth)
Captain Cold Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Leonard "Len" Snart Main Alias Captain Cold Other Aliases King Cold Relatives Unnamed grandfather Lawrence Snart (father) Unnamed mother (deceased) Lisa Snart (sister) Affiliation Central City Police Department , League of Villainy , Rogues , Legion of Doom · Formerly Suicide Squad , Secret Society of Super-Villains , Injustice League , LexCorp , Justice League , Legion of Zoom Base Of Operations Central City Status Alignment Bad Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Professional Criminal , Police Officer Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 2" Weight 196 lbs (89 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Brown Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators John Broome · Carmine Infantino First Appearance The Flash Vol 4  #3 ( January, 2012 )
Captain Cold
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Leonard Snart , also known as Captain Cold , is the on-again off-again leader of the Rogues , making him an enemy of The Flash .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin 1.2 Gaining Powers 1.3 Rogues Revolution 1.4 Rogues Rebellion 1.5 Lex Luthor's Justice League 1.6 Rebirth 1.7 Rogues' Reign
1.1 Origin
1.2 Gaining Powers
1.3 Rogues Revolution
1.4 Rogues Rebellion
1.5 Lex Luthor's Justice League
1.6 Rebirth
1.7 Rogues' Reign
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Trivia
5 Related
6 External Links 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Origin
Leonard Snart experienced a rough childhood. His mother died when he was a child, forcing him and his younger sister Lisa to be raised alone by their father, who had not taken his wife's death well and resorted to alcoholism and physical abuse. Leonard's only refuge, was when his nurturing grandfather would sometimes invite Leonard and his sister to visit him at the ice factory where he worked; Leonard grew up to cherish the cold atmosphere as a symbol of his escape from abuse.
Into adulthood, Leonard, a bright mind, decided to pursue a life of crime and thievery. Though Lisa was an ice skating prodigy, Leonard's protective attitude and Lisa's appreciative acceptance lead her to give up her dream and instead follow her brother down a darker path. [ 1 ]
Stealing a Cold Gun to use for his schemes in Central City , Snart developed the alias " Captain Cold " when he was forced to fight the city's newest hero - the Flash . As a survival technique, Snart and his sister " Golden Glider " teamed up with some other members of the Flash's rogues gallery, thus forming the adequately named team - the Rogues .
Gaining Powers
New costume, new powers
While leading the Rogues, Leonard grew increasingly frustrated that their high-tech weaponry was not enough to prevent the Flash from thwarting their every attempt at crime. After a failed robbery, Leonard angrily pinned the blame on The Trickster and fired him from the team; his frustration and guilt over the issue drove him to drinking. After a sloppy attempt at a robbery from which the other Rogues had to save him, Leonard received an invitation from Dr. Darwin Elias that would make him powerful enough to stop the Flash in his tracks.
The Rogues placed their themed weapons into Elias' genome recoding device, and fused their DNA with the weapons. While Leonard was imbued with the power of Cryokinesis , his sister was not so lucky. She was separated from her body into an astral form. Her real body was left comatose, and afflicted with a malignant brain tumor. Naturally, Leonard blamed himself - as did Lisa's boyfriend Sam, who was trapped within the Mirror World as a result of the experiment. They decided, then, to disband the team. [ 2 ]
After the Flash caused an EMP blast that rendered the Gem Cities without power, Leonard learned that the hospital caring for Lisa would not have enough reserve energy to power the laser that could save her from her cancer. Seeking revenge against the Flash, Leonard decided to eschew the Rogues' rules and kill him. Hoping to get the Flash's attention, Captain Cold froze the river between the Gem Cities. [ 3 ] Leonard learned that his powers backfired if he got wet and inadvertently encased himself in ice, from which the Flash extracted him. When he learned of the reason for Captain Cold's attack, the Flash promised to do all he could to help. The hero created a battery powered by Speed Force energy to power the laser, saving Lisa's life. [ 4 ]
Rogues Revolution
Despite her brother's efforts, Lisa was not as grateful as Leonard had expected and went behind his back to reunite the Rogues as their new leader. They boxed him out of a traid,heist, and, in anger, Captain Cold turned to the Flash for help in fighting the new Rogues. [ 5 ] However, once Leonard came face to face with his sister again, he turned on the Flash and rejoined the Rogues, just in time to witness the beginning of a gorilla invasion. [ 2 ]
Realizing that an invasion of war-like, talking gorillas was not their forté, Captain Cold woke the Flash from unconsciousness and admitted that despite having only just double-crossed him, the Rogues would have to ally with the Flash to keep their city safe. [ 6 ] While the Flash sought out the leader of the gorillas, the Rogues turned to saving civilians from gorilla pillagers. [ 7 ] Despite bickering between Leonard and Lisa as to who the real leader of the Rogues was, they formed a plan to send the attacking gorillas and their buses into the Mirror World. [ 8 ] Unbeknownst to them, that plan resulted in the creation of the Reverse-Flash . [ 9 ] Once the Flash had defeated Grodd , the Rogues returned the civilians to their homes. [ 10 ]
Rogues Rebellion
After yet another heist was thwarted, the Rogues, in frustration, revealed to Cold that none of them had ever forgiven him for forcing their powers on them, and he decided that he would once again disband the Rogues. Again, drunkenly attempting to commit the same robbery that they had failed to complete earlier, the Rogues returned to prevent Leonard from getting caught, and Cold finally admitted his guilt and apologized to them. With the team united again, Leonard decided they should break the Trickster out of prison, believing in the theory that "once a Rogue, always a Rogue". However, when they arrived at Iron Heights , the prison was opened up by a mysterious speedster who proclaimed that the Justice League was dead and that villains now ruled the Earth. [ 11 ]
With their city practically destroyed by the return of the gorillas , Leonard's main concern was for the safety of his sister. After freeing the police force, the Rogues decided they didn't want to be involved in the new world of villainy and actively opposed the Syndicate and the Secret Society . [ 12 ]
Enemies of the Crime Syndicate
Gaining the attention of the Syndicate member Deathstorm for his insubordination, Captain Cold was caught by the monster and had his DNA re-encoded, stripping away his powers. Dragged into the Mirror World by Mirror Master just in time to save him, Cold landed in Metropolis , separated from the rest of the Rogues. Quickly rebuilding his original Cold Gun from memory, Cold joined forces with Lex Luthor , who shared the same goal of undermining the Crime Syndicate's invasion. [ 13 ]
With a coalition of other villains rebelling against the Crime Syndicate's new anarchic law, Cold and the " Injustice League " sought to regain control of their world and bring back the Justice League. When cornered by Johnny Quick during the final gambit on the Syndicate, Cold surprised the speedster by shooting him in the leg, freezing his leg to absolute zero and destroying it. Once the rest of the Syndicate was defeated, the Justice League returned, and Captain Cold and the Injustice League were celebrated as the heroes they were.
Lex Luthor's Justice League
Rebirth
Having grown bored of his time at LexCorp, Snart returned to leading the Rogues in Central City. When a warrant went out for the Flash's arrest due to a plan orchestrated by The Riddler , Cold and the Rogues jumped at the opportunity to beat their archnemesis at his own game and arrested him. [ 14 ] However, as Nygma's plan developed and threatened all of Central City, the Rogues turned coat and fought side-by-side with the Flash yet again to save the city from the Riddler's threat of terror. [ 14 ]
Snart returns to Central City, sporting a new costume
After their victory, Cold and the Rogues went into hiding for weeks as Snart planned what he thought would be one last heist. With upgraded costumes, the Rogues seemingly perfectly planned every move the Flash would make and, by splitting up and using their skills to rob multiple locations, seemingly got away. However, due to Heat Wave's arrogance in fighting the Flash and diverting from Cold's perfect plan, the hero intercepted their getaway boat. Even with an upgraded Black Hole Cold Gun, Captain Cold and the Rogues were still defeated by the Flash and sent to Iron Heights. [ 15 ]
Not long after being sent to prison, the Rogues secretly set up criminal operations within Iron Heights and became kingpins within the system. For weeks, they ran an empire under the noses of both the Flash and the warden Gregory Wolfe until their own Rogue members - Turbine - expressed a desire for reformation and threatened to rat them out. Not wanting to put the empire at risk, Cold snapped Turbine's neck and framed Trickster . However, thanks to the Flash's detective skills, the hero uncovered the operation and exposed Cold as the killer, getting him transferred to Belle Reve . [ 16 ]
In Belle Reve, he was forced to serve Amanda Waller as part of her Suicide Squad . As his first mission, he worked alongside Captain Boomerang and Harley Quinn to capture an escaped Batman and Deadshot who were trying to rescue Zoe Lawton from the Kobra Cult in New Mexico . [ 17 ]
Rogues' Reign
King Cold of Central City
After gaining control Central City thanks to his newfound power gifted from Lex Luthor , Snart ensures that the Flash would remain out of the picture by locking him in the cell. After receive confront from Commander Cold, the duo battle each other, resulting Snart manage to kill him and tossed his chop head in front of the Flash. Unknown to him, his sister secretly free the Flash out of the cell and even bought along his rogues to fight aid against him. When Snart learned about his sister's plan, she explained to him that he didn't told her that the world coming to an end, referring the "Doom Sigil" on the sky. When Snart freeze all of his rogues and the flashes, Snart revealed his true power to Barry as they fought together. Just as he was about to finish off Flash and Golden Glider, Barry unleashed his full power and almost beat him to death without Lisa's interfere.
With both the Flash and Snart get sent to arkham asylum, his sister eventually released him as they both fleed the place before Barry could have a chance to get them.
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Cybernetic Enhancement : Captain Cold was one of the many villains who accepted Lex Luthor 's offer of more power. Luthor provided Snart the technology necessary to enhance himself. [ 18 ] Cryokinesis : After regaining his cryokinetic powers, Snart became more powerful than ever, capable of manipulating absolute zero temperatures and project powerful blasts of cold, capable of matching the Flash's Speed Force lightning. [ 19 ] Cryokinetic Construct Creation : Snart is capable of surrounding his fists with ice, which enhances his strength to great superhuman levels. [ 19 ] Superhuman Strength [ 19 ] [ 20 ] Thermokinesis : Snart can use his powers to lower the temperature to dangerous levels in the atmosphere. [ 19 ] Weather Manipulation : Snart's control over temperatures allowed him to create a massive snow storm across Central City. [ 18 ]
Cryokinesis : After regaining his cryokinetic powers, Snart became more powerful than ever, capable of manipulating absolute zero temperatures and project powerful blasts of cold, capable of matching the Flash's Speed Force lightning. [ 19 ] Cryokinetic Construct Creation : Snart is capable of surrounding his fists with ice, which enhances his strength to great superhuman levels. [ 19 ] Superhuman Strength [ 19 ] [ 20 ] Thermokinesis : Snart can use his powers to lower the temperature to dangerous levels in the atmosphere. [ 19 ] Weather Manipulation : Snart's control over temperatures allowed him to create a massive snow storm across Central City. [ 18 ]
Cryokinetic Construct Creation : Snart is capable of surrounding his fists with ice, which enhances his strength to great superhuman levels. [ 19 ] Superhuman Strength [ 19 ] [ 20 ]
Superhuman Strength [ 19 ] [ 20 ]
Thermokinesis : Snart can use his powers to lower the temperature to dangerous levels in the atmosphere. [ 19 ] Weather Manipulation : Snart's control over temperatures allowed him to create a massive snow storm across Central City. [ 18 ]
Weather Manipulation : Snart's control over temperatures allowed him to create a massive snow storm across Central City. [ 18 ]
Abilities
Genius Level Intellect Leadership : He is a natural leader and has lead the Rogues through countless years of criminality. Mechanical Engineering : Snart is capable of fabricating a weaponized cold-engine. He stole the original engine and its plans and took two months taking it apart and putting it back together again until he could do it with his eyes closed. [ 21 ] He is able to rebuild his Freeze Gun in under 32 minutes with items from a common appliance store. [ 22 ] Tactical Analysis : He also has a very tactical mind, and his own personal sense of honor.
Leadership : He is a natural leader and has lead the Rogues through countless years of criminality.
Mechanical Engineering : Snart is capable of fabricating a weaponized cold-engine. He stole the original engine and its plans and took two months taking it apart and putting it back together again until he could do it with his eyes closed. [ 21 ] He is able to rebuild his Freeze Gun in under 32 minutes with items from a common appliance store. [ 22 ]
Tactical Analysis : He also has a very tactical mind, and his own personal sense of honor.
Expert Combatant : Leonard has had a fair amount of history fighting along the Suicide Squad. [ 23 ] [ 24 ] [ 25 ] [ 26 ] He has survived a mission that resulted in Lawman's death. Even while unarmed, Snart claimed that he could kill an armed Belle Reve Prison Guard, with the Guard agreeing that he'd pull it off. [ 26 ] Snart has even managed to fight and kill the likes of Commander Cold in battle, while both were using somewhat similar technology. [ 27 ] Even before joining the Suicide Squad, he managed to beat down the Flash in a brawl, by cheating. [ 23 ]
Marksmanship
Thievery
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Captain Cold's Snow Goggles : Minimize the flashes of energy given off by his guns within his field of vision.
Transportation
Varies
Weapons
Cold Gun (Formerly) : Captain Cold's standard weapon is a gun that slows the atoms of the target to a halt, causing them to not simply become extremely cold but freeze near dead in their tracks while in motion, rather than actually shooting ice and freezing the target directly. [ 3 ] Cold was temporarily fused with his weapon, giving him the power of ice manipulation, but lost his powers when Deathstorm ripped them from his DNA. Snart returned to using his Cold Gun soon after. [ 28 ] Whilst on the Rogues most ambitious outing yet, Snart would upgrade his signature weapon using Speed Force moderating technology created by the Black Hole Organization that he had stolen from S.T.A.R. Labs. [ 29 ] Giving his freezing pistol a potent energy disruption effect on The Flash's powers. [ 30 ]
Whilst on the Rogues most ambitious outing yet, Snart would upgrade his signature weapon using Speed Force moderating technology created by the Black Hole Organization that he had stolen from S.T.A.R. Labs. [ 29 ] Giving his freezing pistol a potent energy disruption effect on The Flash's powers. [ 30 ]
Trivia
He has a code of honor that prevents him from killing innocent people.
Related
190 Appearances of Leonard Snart (Prime Earth)
114 Images featuring Leonard Snart (Prime Earth)
10 Quotations by or about Leonard Snart (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Leonard Snart (Prime Earth)
External Links
Leonard Snart (Prime Earth) at Flash: Those Who Ride the Lightning
Footnotes
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #14
↑ 2.0 2.1 The Flash Annual (Volume 4) #1
↑ 3.0 3.1 The Flash (Volume 4) #6
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #7
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #12
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #13
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #14
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #15 & 16
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #23.2: Reverse-Flash
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #17
↑ The Flash (Volume 4) #23.3: The Rogues
↑ Forever Evil: Rogues Rebellion #1
↑ Forever Evil: Rogues Rebellion #2
↑ 14.0 14.1 The Flash (Volume 4) #50
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #14 - 17
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #36 - 38
↑ Suicide Squad (Volume 5) #41 - 44
↑ 18.0 18.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #85
↑ 19.0 19.1 19.2 19.3 The Flash (Volume 5) #86
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #87
↑ Forever Evil #4
↑ Forever Evil #3
↑ 23.0 23.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #38
↑ Suicide Squad (Volume 5) #43
↑ Suicide Squad (Volume 5) #44
↑ 26.0 26.1 The Flash (Volume 5) #75
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #82
↑ Forever Evil #6
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #16
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #17
Injustice League member This character is or was a member of the Injustice League , a villainous counterpart to the Justice League, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Injustice League members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
Legion of Doom member This character is or was a member of the Legion of Doom , a team of supervillains called together for the purpose of conquering the world and defeating the Super Friends, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Legion of Doom members " category.
Rogues Gallery This character is or was a member of the Rogues , a loose collection of enemies to the Flash , in any of its various incarnations . They are a team of highly effective super-villains with their own internal code that prevents them from killing speedsters. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Rogues Gallery members category."
Secret Society of Super-Villains member This character is or was a member of the Secret Society of Super-Villains , a cadre of super-villains who band together to accomplish feats no one super-villain can do alone, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Secret Society of Super-Villains members " category.
Suicide Squad member This character is or was a member of the Suicide Squad , a team of imprisoned super-villains who perform high-risk missions for the U.S. Government in exchange for commuted sentences, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Suicide Squad members " category.
Flash Villain(s) This character, team, or organization, has been primarily an enemy of any or all of the various incarnations of the Flash . This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Flash Villains ."

Catwoman(disambiguation)
Selina Kyle ( 2011 - Present ) Selina Kyle Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Selina Kyle ( 2011 - Present )
Catwoman is Selina Kyle , a morally ambiguous character who has been an antihero, acting as an adversary , a crimefighter and also a love interest for the Batman . Years of training have made her stealthy and agile as a world-class criminal, and her mastery of martial arts makes her a formidable physical opponent. Although she began her career as a burglar, she has since then reformed and begun protecting Gotham City in her own style. This has led to her being almost completely accepted as a regular member of the Batman Family . She has also been a member of the Birds of Prey , the Outsiders , the Gotham City Sirens , the Injustice League , the Justice League and the Secret Society of Super-Villains . Her close friend Holly Robinson acted as her successor for an extended period when Selina was out of commission. In Prime Earth continuity, Eiko Hasigawa assumed the Catwoman mantle during a time in which Selina was serving as a crime boss.
Catwoman was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane , first appearing in Batman #1 ( 1940 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.5 Hypertime 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Alternate Timelines 1.8 Possible Futures
1.1 New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.5 Hypertime
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Alternate Timelines
1.8 Possible Futures
2 Other media 2.1 DCAU 2.2 Lego Dimensions 2.3 Injustice Multiverse 2.4 Tomorrowverse 2.5 DC Super Hero Girls 2.6 Arrowverse 2.7 Others
2.1 DCAU
2.2 Lego Dimensions
2.3 Injustice Multiverse
2.4 Tomorrowverse
2.5 DC Super Hero Girls
2.6 Arrowverse
2.7 Others
3 Comics
4 Other Media Titles
Multiverse
New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other media
DCAU
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
Tomorrowverse
DC Super Hero Girls
Arrowverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Catwoman Titles
Other Media Titles

Clayface(disambiguation)
Basil Karlo ( 2011 - Present ) Basil Karlo Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Basil Karlo ( 2011 - Present )
Clayface is a legacy name used by several Batman Villains , like Basil Karlo , Matt Hagen , Preston Payne , Sondra Fuller , Cassius Payne , and Peter Malley . Each of them has powers that involve a malleable clay-like body structures and were patients at Arkham Asylum in some point. They primarily use their abilities to commit crimes and terrorize Gotham City . The name has been associated with the Injustice League , Anti-Justice League , Secret Society of Super-Villains , and Batman Family .
Clayface was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane , first appearing in Detective Comics #40 (1940) making him as old as Joker .
Contents
1 Other versions
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Post-Crisis 2.4 Pre-Crisis 2.5 Hypertime 2.6 Elseworlds 2.7 Alternate timelines 2.8 Possible futures
2.1 The New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Post-Crisis
2.4 Pre-Crisis
2.5 Hypertime
2.6 Elseworlds
2.7 Alternate timelines
2.8 Possible futures
3 Other media 3.1 DC Animated Universe 3.2 Lego Dimensions 3.3 Arrowverse 3.4 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 3.5 Others
3.1 DC Animated Universe
3.2 Lego Dimensions
3.3 Arrowverse
3.4 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
3.5 Others
4 Comics
5 See Also
Other versions
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate timelines
Possible futures
Other media
DC Animated Universe
Lego Dimensions
Arrowverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also
Comic series featuring Clayface
Matt Hagen
Preston Payne
Cassius Payne
Lady Clay
Mudface
False Face

Cyborg(disambiguation)
Vic Stone ( 2011 - Present ) Vic Stone Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Vic Stone ( 2011 - Present )
Cyborg , real name Victor Stone , is a superhero half man and half machine. His body was destroyed in a tragic accident, but he was saved by his father through experimental technology. Most of his body parts have been replaced with cybernetic ones, which grant him access to a large arsenal of high-tech gadgets and weaponry, while also providing life support. Stone struggles with his humanity as a machine, although his enhancements have made him incredibly powerful. He is primarily a member of the Teen Titans in the Modern Age continuity, but in the New 52 continuity, he is a founding member of the Justice League .
Cyborg was created by Marv Wolfman and George Pérez , first appearing in DC Comics Presents #26 ( 1980 ).
Contents
1 Related
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Hypertime 2.6 Elseworlds 2.7 Alternate Timelines 2.8 Possible Futures
2.1 The New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Hypertime
2.6 Elseworlds
2.7 Alternate Timelines
2.8 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 DC Animated Universe 3.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse 3.3 Lego Dimensions 3.4 Arrowverse 3.5 Injustice Multiverse 3.6 Tomorrowverse 3.7 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 3.8 Others
3.1 DC Animated Universe
3.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse
3.3 Lego Dimensions
3.4 Arrowverse
3.5 Injustice Multiverse
3.6 Tomorrowverse
3.7 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
3.8 Others
4 Comics
5 Other media titles
6 See Also
Related
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Teen Titans TV Multiverse
Lego Dimensions
Arrowverse
Injustice Multiverse
Tomorrowverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Cyborg Titles
Other media titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Cyborg
Cover Gallery: Cyborg
Category:Cyborgs
Cyborgirl
Cyborg Superman

Damian Wayne (Prime Earth)
Robin Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Damian Wayne Main Alias Robin Other Aliases Batman · Damian al Ghul · Demon's Son · Garth · Gray Son of Gotham · Hafid al Ghul · Ibn al Xu'ffasch · Knute Brody Junior [ 1 ] · Mister Mittens [ 2 ] · Redbird Relatives Ra's al Ghul (maternal grandfather) · Melisande (maternal grandmother, deceased) · Thomas Wayne (paternal grandfather, deceased) · Martha Wayne (paternal grandmother, deceased) · Talia al Ghul (mother) · Bruce Wayne (father) · Respawn (genetic half-brother) · Mara al Ghul (cousin) · Rúh al Ghul (maternal great-grandmother, deceased) · Roderick Kane (paternal great-grandfather, deceased) · Jacob Kane (great-uncle) · Gabrielle Kane (great-aunt, deceased) · Kate Kane (first cousin, once removed) · Beth Kane (first cousin, once removed) · Mary Elizabeth Kane (first cousin, once removed) · Heretic (clone) see Wayne Family for more Affiliation Batman Family , Justice League Unlimited · Formerly Batman Inc. , Court of Owls , Justice League: Team Wisdom , League of Assassins , Super Sons , Teen Titans , Wayne Enterprises Base Of Operations Gotham City · Formerly New York City · San Francisco Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Vigilante · Student Characteristics Gender Male Height 5' 4" Weight 140 lbs (64 kg) Eyes Green Hair Black Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Mike W. Barr · Grant Morrison · Andy Kubert First Appearance Batman and Robin Vol 2  #1 ( November, 2011 )
Robin
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Damian Wayne is the son of Batman and Talia al Ghul . This makes him an heir to the world's greatest crime-fighter, and its greatest supervillain Ra's al Ghul . Damian became the fifth Robin , working alongside his father as Batman.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Childhood 1.2 Becoming Robin 1.3 New 52 1.3.1 Born to Kill 1.3.2 Batman Incorporated 1.3.3 Resurrection 1.3.4 Son of Batman 1.3.5 Robin War 1.3.6 Batman & Robin Eternal 1.4 DC Rebirth 1.4.1 Teen Titans 1.4.2 In the Name of the Father 1.4.3 Super Sons Vs. Kid Amazo 1.4.4 The Lazarus Contract 1.4.5 Dark Knights: Metal 1.4.6 The New Teen Titans 1.4.7 Death Metal 1.5 Infinite Frontier 1.5.1 Lazarus Tournament 1.5.2 Shadow War 1.5.3 Batman vs. Robin 1.5.4 Lazarus Planet 1.6 Dawn of DC 1.6.1 Return to Gotham 1.6.2 Knight Terrors 1.6.3 The Gotham War 1.6.4 Beast World
1.1 Early Childhood
1.2 Becoming Robin
1.3 New 52 1.3.1 Born to Kill 1.3.2 Batman Incorporated 1.3.3 Resurrection 1.3.4 Son of Batman 1.3.5 Robin War 1.3.6 Batman & Robin Eternal
1.3.1 Born to Kill
1.3.2 Batman Incorporated
1.3.3 Resurrection
1.3.4 Son of Batman
1.3.5 Robin War
1.3.6 Batman & Robin Eternal
1.4 DC Rebirth 1.4.1 Teen Titans 1.4.2 In the Name of the Father 1.4.3 Super Sons Vs. Kid Amazo 1.4.4 The Lazarus Contract 1.4.5 Dark Knights: Metal 1.4.6 The New Teen Titans 1.4.7 Death Metal
1.4.1 Teen Titans
1.4.2 In the Name of the Father
1.4.3 Super Sons Vs. Kid Amazo
1.4.4 The Lazarus Contract
1.4.5 Dark Knights: Metal
1.4.6 The New Teen Titans
1.4.7 Death Metal
1.5 Infinite Frontier 1.5.1 Lazarus Tournament 1.5.2 Shadow War 1.5.3 Batman vs. Robin 1.5.4 Lazarus Planet
1.5.1 Lazarus Tournament
1.5.2 Shadow War
1.5.3 Batman vs. Robin
1.5.4 Lazarus Planet
1.6 Dawn of DC 1.6.1 Return to Gotham 1.6.2 Knight Terrors 1.6.3 The Gotham War 1.6.4 Beast World
1.6.1 Return to Gotham
1.6.2 Knight Terrors
1.6.3 The Gotham War
1.6.4 Beast World
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Abilities 2.2 Weaknesses
2.1 Abilities
2.2 Weaknesses
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Early Childhood
Son of the Bat
Sometime after Batman became a public hero, he fought Ra's al Ghul and the League of Assassins . During his adventure, he met Ra's' daughter Talia al Ghul . The two young adults fell for each other and, after a brief fling, they conceived a child.
Bruce was unaware of the child's conception and returned to crime fighting for years. Talia on the other hand, taking advantage of the hero's impressive genes, believed their child to be a perfect heir. The child was born and given the name Damian. Talia then used the League's extensive scientific resources to inorganically speed up the child's aging - giving him the physiology of a ten year old in less than five years.
During this time, Damian was raised by Talia and trained by the League of Assassins ; Damian became a skilled assassin by an early age. Coupled by his innate talent for the art and his lineage, Damian became a respected member of the League.
Becoming Robin
Eventually, when Talia deemed that Damian was ready, she allowed him to go to Gotham and meet his father - the Batman. Batman was surprised to learn he had a secret son with a supervillain but sought to learn more about the boy anyway. Despite his intense training to become a remorseless assassin, Damian was sympathetic to his father's vigilantism in Gotham and volunteered to become his next sidekick. Batman agreed and granted Damian the mantle of Robin, his fourth ward to use the name.
However, the father and son were not active together very long before Bruce was seemingly killed by Darkseid during a massive invasion . Bruce's first protégé Dick Grayson took over the mantle of Batman, and Damian, not giving up on his father's missions, agreed to continue on as Grayson's Robin.
Though the two were originally contentious of one another, they bonded closely, forming a brotherly relationship. As the Dynamic Duo, they faced new threats such as Doctor Hurt , Professor Pyg and Flamingo . [ 3 ]
Eventually, Bruce returned from the dead, having been travelling through time the entire time, and Bruce and Damian returned to patrolling together as Batman and Robin, father and son.
New 52
Born to Kill
Batman and Robin
Main article: Batman and Robin: Born to Kill
Bruce tried teaching Damian, still a cold-hearted assassin, about the sanctity of life, but had trouble relating with his son. [ 4 ] Damian began showing restraint, which Bruce commended, although Alfred still criticized him for not being supportive enough. [ 5 ] Bruce bought Damian a dog named Titus .
They were both targeted by a super-villain named Nobody . [ 6 ] They were kidnapped by Nobody, who tried to show Batman that his no-kill methods were ineffective. He encouraged Robin's darker side and tried to take him as an apprentice. [ 7 ] Robin angrily left the Batcave to work with Nobody, who asked him to execute a criminal. [ 8 ] Robin revealed that he was lying, and refused to betray his father. Nobody decided to torture Robin, continuing his personal vendetta against Batman. [ 9 ] When Batman discovered their location, he beat Nobody mercilessly and came close to killing him, but stopped when he realized Damian was watching the fight. Nobody swore that he would return and kill their friends, so Damian killed him with a move Nobody had taught him. [ 10 ]
Though deeply shaken by the killing, Bruce reacted with compassion rather than anger. When Damian regained consciousness, they talked about how difficult it is for Damian to adjust from the life of an assassin. Despite their differences, they played ball with Titus and began to enjoy spending more time together as father and son. [ 11 ]
Batman Incorporated
Main article: Batman Incorporated: Demon Star
Damian as Redbird with Jason Todd as Wingman
Batman and Robin began working together against Damian's mother Talia al Ghul, revealed as the head of Leviathan . During a fight in a meat factory, Damian converted to vegetarianism and adopted a pet cow who he named Bat-Cow . He was believed dead when he was shot in the head by an assassin named Goatboy . [ 12 ] It was revealed that Talia had created another clone as his replacement, the obedient fully-grown Heretic . [ 13 ] Robin was shown to have faked his death, and is confined to the Batcave at Batman's orders. To avoid the bounty Talia placed on his head, he began using the name Redbird and switched to a new costume. [ 14 ] This allowed him to team up with Jason Todd , who was using the Wingman identity. They worked together with Batman Incorporated to take down the League of Assassins' top killers. However, Batman told Damian he had to quit crime-fighting altogether. [ 15 ] Bruce revealed that he has seen Damian's future, as told through " Batman in Bethlehem ". If Damian did not retire, his actions would lead to a plague that would force the President to nuke Gotham. [ 16 ] Batman Incorporated fought Leviathan in the streets, while Damian was forced to stay inside. Alfred Pennyworth got him a cat to take care of, who he also named Alfred . [ 17 ] Damian refused to stay home while his allies were dying, and Alfred allowed him to leave knowing he could not be stopped. [ 18 ] He flew his exo-skeleton into the center of the battle, where Leviathan had taken over Wayne Tower . He neutralized the child soldiers, and teamed up with Dick Grayson to take down the remaining assassins. The Heretic flew Grayson aside, and challenged Damian to a sword-fight. Despite his bravery and refusal to give up, Damian was impaled through the chest and killed. [ 19 ]
Resurrection
Main article: Batman and Robin: Robin Rises
After various trials and tribulations involving his corpse, mainly revolving around Ra's al Ghul and Apokolips , Batman managed to rescue his son's body and, through using the Omega Sanction infused within a Chaos Crystal shard, brought Damian back to life within the Batcave. [ 20 ]
Son of Batman
Damian attempts to atone for his past
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Robin War
The Gray Son of Gotham takes on Red Robin
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Batman & Robin Eternal
Robins united
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
DC Rebirth
Teen Titans
Robin leads the Teen Titans
On his 13th birthday Damian was sent a package by his grandfather Ra's al Ghul, which contained a dead robin. [ 21 ] After meeting with his mother Talia, he discovered that it was a warning from his cousin Mara al Ghul , who had chosen him as her prey as part of an initiation ritual she must undertake in order to properly join the League of Assassins. Mara had been made leader of a group known as the Demon's Fist, which was originally supposed to be led by Damian but became hers when he chose to leave the League. They too had chosen targets that they must hunt down in order to ascend to the League. Damian decided to collect the other Demon's Fist members' targets in order to form the new Teen Titans ; comprised of Starfire , Beast Boy , Raven and Kid Flash .
In the Name of the Father
Robin meets Superboy
While searching for a tree for Christmas, [ 22 ] Jonathan Samuel Kent accidentally torched some woodlands near a swamp in Hamilton. He was subsequently rescued by Maya Ducard , the daughter of the villain Nobody, and Damian's pet dragon-bat Goliath . Jon later awakened in the Batcave and found out that Robin had been keeping him under surveillance for a long time. The two initially did not get along, and the situation was further complicated when Batman and Superman arrived, blaming each other for the conflict.
The ensuing melee was abruptly averted when Jon used his Freeze Breath to separate the two sides and allow him to explain the situation to his father. While their fathers were discussing the lab tests that Damian had performed on Jon, the two boys went off to look at Damian's pets. However, due to Damian's snide remarks and goading, Jon lost his temper and another brawl broke out between them. This was also put down quickly as Batman and Superman looked down on them in furious silence. [ 23 ]
In order to properly discipline their sons and teach them the value of working together, Superman and Batman had them undergo a series of challenges. However their lack of teamwork and animosity toward each other caused them to fail every challenge. The boys finally managed to put aside their differences and worked together in order to save their fathers from an apparent threat in the Batcave, but this later turns out to be a ruse. At this point, Alfred declared them to be the Super Sons . [ 24 ]
Super Sons Vs. Kid Amazo
The Super Sons
Jonathan was paid a visit by Robin, posing as both his school's bus driver and his substitute teacher. [ 25 ] He was later unwillingly recruited by Damian to help him investigate a series of break-ins at LexCorp . This misadventure was further complicated with the appearance of Lex Luthor , who tried to capture them both. [ 26 ] The two boys managed to escape Luthor and followed a lead to a home in Providence, Rhode Island, where they encountered a family who still retained their powers from the Amazo Virus . However, one member by the name of Reggie Meyer was driven insane by the excessive use of his powers and took the alias of Kid Amazo. He had also stolen the Amazo Armor from LexCorp and had planned to use it and the abilities of the Super Sons to lure the Justice League into a trap. [ 27 ] Thanks to the arrival of Lex Luthor and aid from Reggie's super-powered sister Sara, Kid Amazo was taken down. Not wanting to explain themselves, Robin and Superboy quickly left the area and headed back to Hamilton. However, their absences from their respective homes did not go unnoticed as they encountered both Lois Lane and Alfred Pennyworth while trying to sneak into Jon's home. [ 28 ]
The boys were subsequently punished by their respective parents. Batman forbade Robin to go crime-fighting for a week while Superboy was forced to do his chores without using his superpowers. [ 29 ] With the prospect of moving to Metropolis on his mind, Jon eventually ran off and headed to Gotham to speak with Damian in the Batcave. This resulted in another argument and a short fight, before Alfred arrived. They were later joined by Batman and Superman, and worked out their differences. With Superman's and Batman's permission, the two boys would be allowed to go on their own, provided that they would do so together.
The Lazarus Contract
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dark Knights: Metal
Main article: Dark Nights: Metal
Damian aided in fighting the Dark Knights upon their invasion, forming the Gotham Resistance with Green Arrow , Killer Croc , Nightwing and Harley Quinn . They lost Croc, the Teen Titans and the Suicide Squad , but they defeated Mister Freeze , Riddler and Damian's evil Earth -22 self and made the discovery that beings from the Dark Multiverse can be killed by Nth Metal .
The New Teen Titans
Damian's second team
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Death Metal
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Infinite Frontier
Lazarus Tournament
Battle for Lazarus Island
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Shadow War
All-Out War
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Batman vs. Robin
Father versus son
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Lazarus Planet
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dawn of DC
Return to Gotham
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Knight Terrors
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Gotham War
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Beast World
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Powers and Abilities
Abilities
Archery : Damian asserted that his training with the League of Assassins gave him greater mastery of the bow than even Green Arrow . [ 30 ]
Artistry : Damian is considered as skilled with a brush as he is with a sword. [ 31 ]
Aviation [ 32 ]
Business Management : Trained by his mother and the League of Assassins in the way of controlling a company with an iron grip. Even as a young boy he knows that in business there are wars and even in war there are assassins. Damian is involved with the Wayne Enterprises' board members. He even intimidated the board members by tracking down financial irregularities within the Wayne Enterprises' accounts.
Cooking [ 33 ]
Computer Hacking [ 34 ]
Deception : According to Batman, Robin was a skilled liar. [ 35 ]
Disguise : Damian has disguised himself as an elderly busdriver and a substitute teacher. [ 25 ]
Driving : He learned to drive at the age of five. [ 25 ]
Escapology [ 36 ]
Firearms [ 5 ]
Genius Level Intellect : Damian has inherited a genius IQ from his father. He states he is smarter than anyone teaching at any level of school. [ 33 ]
Indomitable Will [ 37 ]
Intimidation
Investigation : Damian, having been trained under the "World's Greatest Detective", has been able to deduce people's actions as well as solve mysteries with few amounts of data. [ 38 ]
Martial Arts : Damian has stated he knows just as many martial arts as Batman and can use them more effectively. This may be a largely overstated comment, but one should not ask for verification. Damian may not be physically tough, but he knows how to control his weight to his advantage in combat. He has stated that he knows "one thousand ways to kill a man." Damian's training with Batman and the League of Assassins has made him a highly formidable combatant. He is one of the few people capable of fighting on par with Connor Hawke , who is amongst the world's most skilled martial artists. [ 39 ] Karate [ 40 ] Tae Kwon Do [ 40 ]
Karate [ 40 ]
Tae Kwon Do [ 40 ]
Medical Science [ 41 ]
Music [ 42 ]
Occultism : Damian has some knowledge of magic and mysticism. He knows at least one magic spell, which allowed him conjure mystical chains to bind Gotham Girl, using a magic wand. [ 34 ]
Peak Human Condition
Pedagogy : He once taught a geology class for a day at Jon Kent 's school. [ 25 ]
Stealth : Damian was able to sneak into Gotham City and furthermore into the Batcave virtually undetected until he felt necessary. Of all the Robins, Damian may be the one that is the most silent.
Stick Fighting [ 43 ]
Swordsmanship : Damian assaulted both Tim Drake and Bruce Wayne on separate occasions with his sword, apparently the same sword used by Ra's al Ghul . Although Damian no longer uses his sword he may be unmatched with one if armed correctly.
Throwing : Damian is trained by the League of Assassins in shuriken throwing and further trained by Batman in Batarang throwing.
Weaknesses
Arrogance : More often than not, Damian believes himself to be better than he is, this has allowed him to underestimate opponents as well as irritate his allies.
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Utility Belt [ 4 ]
Wand of Klarion : Damian possesses a magic wand that belonged to Klarion the Witch Boy , which he can use as a conduit for spell casting. He stated it could only be used once. [ 34 ]
Weapons
Batrangs [ 44 ]
Robin's Battle Staff [ 43 ]
Notes
The idea that would eventually become Damian was originally created by Mike W. Barr as an unnamed baby put up for adoption. However, The DC Comics Encyclopedia New Edition (2021) states the baby at the end of the the graphic novel Son of the Demon is not Damian Wayne. Grant Morrison and Andy Kubert revamped the character, creating his look and personality in the " Batman and Son " storyline. [ 45 ] His first appearance in Prime Earth continuity is seen in Peter Tomasi 's " Born to Kill " storyline. However, Damian is stated as being genetically modified by his mother in the bio of Batman and Robin vol 2 0. [ 4 ]
Damian's age has been stated twice throughout publication since New 52: In Teen Titans (Volume 6) #1 during DC Rebirth, Damian celebrates his 13th birthday. In Robin (Volume 3) #1 , Damian is remarked to be 14 years old.
In Teen Titans (Volume 6) #1 during DC Rebirth, Damian celebrates his 13th birthday.
In Robin (Volume 3) #1 , Damian is remarked to be 14 years old.
Trivia
While the Pre-Flashpoint Damian did not meet his mother until he was eight, [ 38 ] New 52 Damian knew his mother his entire life and they had a mother-son relationship. [ 46 ]
Damian has declared himself a vegetarian. [ 12 ]
Damian has a strong love for animals. The pets he has owned include Goliath (dragon-bat), Bat-Cow , Titus (dog), Alfred (cat), Wiggles (dragon), and Jerry (turkey).
His best friend is Jon Kent . [ 47 ]
While in a simulation created by Batman where no one became Robin, Damian practiced Buddhism. It is unknown if Damian was actually Buddhist or if this was just creativity on behalf of his father. [ 48 ]
When Damian first died he originally went to Hell , the only people he told were the Teen Titans . [ 49 ] [ 50 ] [ 51 ]
Recommended Reading
Batman and Robin Vol. 2 (2011-2015)
Batman: Night of the Owls
Batman: Death of the Family
Batman Incorporated Vol. 2 (2012-2013)
Batman and Robin: Robin Rises
Robin: Son of Batman (2015-2016)
Teen Titans Vol. 6 (2016-2021)
Super Sons (2017-2018)
Adventures of the Super Sons (2018-2019)
Batman: City of Bane (2018) (Batman Vol. 3 #76-83)
Event Leviathan (2019-2020)
Challenge of the Super Sons (2021)
Robin Vol. 3 (2021-2022)
Shadow War (2022)
Batman vs. Robin (2023)
Lazarus Planet
Batman and Robin Vol. 3 (2023-)
Related
683 Appearances of Damian Wayne (Prime Earth)
646 Images featuring Damian Wayne (Prime Earth)
87 Quotations by or about Damian Wayne (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Damian Wayne (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Detective Comics #1000
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #110
↑ Robin Rises: Omega #1
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #1
↑ 5.0 5.1 Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #2
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #3
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #4
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #5
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #6
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #7
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #8
↑ 12.0 12.1 Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #1
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #2
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #3
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #4
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #5
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #6
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #7
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #8
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #37
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 6) #1
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #10
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #10
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #11
↑ 25.0 25.1 25.2 25.3 Super Sons #1
↑ Super Sons #2
↑ Super Sons #3
↑ Super Sons #4
↑ Super Sons #5
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 6) #32
↑ Robin: Son of Batman #4
↑ Detective Comics #968
↑ 33.0 33.1 Batman and Robin (Volume 3) #1
↑ 34.0 34.1 34.2 Batman (Volume 3) #77
↑ Robins #2
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #81
↑ Batman vs. Robin #5
↑ 38.0 38.1 Batman and Robin #10
↑ Robin (Volume 3) #8
↑ 40.0 40.1 Batman vs. Robin #4
↑ Detective Comics #995
↑ Adventures of the Super Sons #9
↑ 43.0 43.1 DC Rebirth Holiday Special #1
↑ Lazarus Planet: Omega #1
↑ Batman #655
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #0
↑ Robin 80th Anniversary 100-Page Super Spectacular #1
↑ Robins #5
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #38
↑ Robin: Son of Batman #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 6) #40
This character is or was an incarnation of or an ally of Batman , and a member of the Batman Family . This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Batman Family members " category.
Court of Owls member This character is or was a member of the Court of Owls , a secret society that has controlled Gotham City for centuries, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Court of Owls members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
League of Assassins member This character is or was a member of the League of Assassins , a international organization of the world's greatest killers, operating both for hire and their own agenda, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " League of Assassins members " category.
This character is or was primarily a member of the younger superhero team known as the Teen Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Teen Titans members " category.

Darkseid(disambiguation)
Darkseid ( 2011 - Present ) Darkseid Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Darkseid ( 2011 - Present )
Darkseid is the ruler of Apokolips and Darkseid's Elite and was a major player in the cosmic war that was the Final Crisis . Unto the hell that is Apokolips came Darkseid, pure hatred personified, a merciless tyrant who demanded unwavering devotion and abject fear from all his subjects. A being of unparalleled strength, Darkseid nevertheless preferred not to sully his gloves with combat unless provoked to action. His eyes emitted the formidable Omega Sanction , ray beams that could disintegrate, teleport, or resurrect depending on the dread lord's wishes. His sole mission in life was to find and gain control over the Anti-Life Equation which would give him the means to usurp all free will in the sentient universe.
Created by Jack Kirby , Darkseid first appeared as a cameo appearance in Superman's Pal, Jimmy Olsen #134 ( 1970 ). He then made his first full appearance in Forever People #1 ( 1971 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.5 Hypertime 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Alternate Timelines 1.8 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.5 Hypertime
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Alternate Timelines
1.8 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 Lego Dimensions 2.2 Injustice Multiverse 2.3 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 2.4 Others
2.1 Lego Dimensions
2.2 Injustice Multiverse
2.3 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
2.4 Others
3 Comics
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Comics

Deathstroke(disambiguation)
Slade Wilson ( 2011 - Present ) Slade Wilson Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Slade Wilson ( 2011 - Present )
Deathstroke is Slade Wilson , the world's greatest assassin/mercenary and an enemy of the Teen Titans and the Justice League . Originally a soldier in the U.S. Army , he was part of an experimental super-soldier project where he gained enhanced strength, agility and intelligence. His vendetta against the Titans began when he swore revenge for the death of his oldest son Grant ; his two other children would go on to become Titans members as Jericho and Ravager .
Traditionally his actions have been limited by a strong personal code of honor, although his motives became more villainous following the death of his wife Adeline Kane . Through this time his only steady companion is his loyal manservant Major Wintergreen . He has been a member of Checkmate , H.I.V.E. , the Injustice League , the Secret Society of Super-Villains , the Suicide Squad , the Titans , and Titans East .
Deathstroke was created by Marv Wolfman and George Pérez , first appearing in New Teen Titans #2 ( 1980 ).
Contents
1 Impostors
2 Multiverse 2.1 New 52 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 52 2.4 Pre-Crisis 2.5 Elseworlds 2.6 Possible Futures
2.1 New 52
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 52
2.4 Pre-Crisis
2.5 Elseworlds
2.6 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 Teen Titans TV Multiverse 3.2 Arrowverse 3.3 Lego Dimensions 3.4 Injustice Multiverse 3.5 Tomorrowverse 3.6 Others
3.1 Teen Titans TV Multiverse
3.2 Arrowverse
3.3 Lego Dimensions
3.4 Injustice Multiverse
3.5 Tomorrowverse
3.6 Others
4 Comics
5 Other Media Titles
Impostors
Multiverse
New 52
Dark Multiverse
52
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Possible Futures
Other Media
Teen Titans TV Multiverse
Arrowverse
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
Tomorrowverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Deathstroke Titles
Other Media Titles

Doctor Fate(disambiguation)
Khalid Nassour ( 2011 - Present ) Khalid Nassour Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Khalid Nassour ( 2011 - Present )
Doctor Fate is the title and heroic legacy of mystic defenders within the universe beginning in the 20th century. The progenitor of the legacy is Nabu , whose will once controlled selected champions in ancient Egypt to act as his hosts. Based in the Tower of Fate , incarnations of Doctor Fate wields Amulet of Anubis , the Cloak of Destiny , and the Helmet of Fate , placing them among the most powerful magic users in the known universe. The character has been associated with notable superhero groups such as the Justice Society , Justice League , All-Star Squadron , Sentinels of Magic , and Justice League Dark .
Famed archaeologist Kent Nelson was the first Doctor Fate, serving as an agent of order often supplanted by Nabu's will while donning the helm overtime. Subsequently, Eric and Linda Strauss were chosen as successors and merged to form a dual identity. Inza Cramer , Kent's wife, briefly assumed the mantle as an agent of chaos until the events of Zero Hour , where the legacy passed to Jared Stevens , a smuggler and agent of balance who simply adopted the name "Fate". Hector Hall , the reincarnated son of Hawkman , later took up the mantle after Jared's passing until his demise at the hands of the Spectre. Kent V. Nelson , the grand-nephew of the original Fate, assumed the mantle during the beginning of the Tenth Age of Magic.
The current incarnation of Doctor Fate is Khalid Nassour , a young Muslim Egyptian-American physician and grand-nephew of Kent Nelson selected by ancient Egyptian deities as the current Doctor Fate. While once apprenticed and supported by Nelson and Nabu alike, after Nelson's death and Nabu's disappearance, Nassour is instead guided and supported by the mysterious Hauhet .
Doctor Fate was created by Gardner Fox and Howard Sherman , first appearing in More Fun Comics #55 ( 1940 ).
Contents
1 Predecessors
2 Counterparts
3 Multiverse 3.1 The New 52 3.2 Dark Multiverse 3.3 Post-Crisis 3.4 Pre-Crisis 3.5 Elseworlds 3.6 Alternate Timelines 3.7 Possible Futures
3.1 The New 52
3.2 Dark Multiverse
3.3 Post-Crisis
3.4 Pre-Crisis
3.5 Elseworlds
3.6 Alternate Timelines
3.7 Possible Futures
4 Other Media 4.1 Young Justice Series 4.2 Injustice Multiverse 4.3 Lego Dimensions 4.4 Tomorrowverse 4.5 Others
4.1 Young Justice Series
4.2 Injustice Multiverse
4.3 Lego Dimensions
4.4 Tomorrowverse
4.5 Others
5 Comics
6 See Also
Predecessors
Counterparts
Multiverse
The New 52
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
Young Justice Series
Injustice Multiverse
Lego Dimensions
Tomorrowverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Doctor Fate Titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Doctor Fate
Cover Gallery: Doctor Fate
Kent Nelson
Nabu
Fate
Inza Cramer
Hector Hall
Khalid Nassour
Doctor Chaos
Doctor Hate

Green Arrow (Oliver Queen)
Green Arrow Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Oliver Jonas "Ollie" Queen Main Alias Green Arrow Other Aliases Arrow , Dark Hunter , Aquaman , [ 1 ] Agent Queen [ 2 ] Relatives Robert Queen (father, deceased) · Moira Queen (mother, deceased) · Emiko Queen (paternal half-sister) · Roy Harper (adoptive son) · Connor Hawke (son) Affiliation Justice League Unlimited , Team Arrow , Seven Soldiers of Victory · Formerly Bureau of Sovereignty , Checkmate , Justice League of America , Justice League United , Outsiders , Queen Industries Base Of Operations Seattle · Formerly Star City Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Archer , Businessman , Activist, Vigilante Characteristics Gender Male Height 5' 10" Weight 176 lbs (80 kg) Eyes Green Hair Blond Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Mort Weisinger · George Papp First Appearance Green Arrow Vol 5  #1 ( November, 2011 )
Green Arrow
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Oliver "Ollie" Queen is Green Arrow , a vigilante who uses a bow and arrow to fight crime at a street level, while espousing socially liberal values. He mainly operates in Star City and Seattle .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.1.1 Origins 1.1.2 Zero Year 1.1.3 Gaining Allies 1.1.4 Early Career 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 The Midas Touch 1.2.2 Triple Threat 1.2.3 Harrow 1.2.4 The Kill Machine 1.2.5 The Outsiders War 1.2.6 Broken 1.2.7 Outbreak 1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 The Death and Life of Oliver Queen 1.3.2 Island of Scars 1.3.3 Emerald Outlaw 1.3.4 The Rise of Star City 1.3.5 Hard-Traveling Hero 1.3.6 The Death of Roy Harper 1.3.7 Event Leviathan 1.3.8 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Re-Joining the Justice League 1.4.2 Checkmate 1.4.3 Deep Target 1.4.4 Dark Crisis 1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Reunion 1.5.2 Beast World 1.5.3 Agent of the Wall 1.5.4 Absolute Power
1.1 Early Life 1.1.1 Origins 1.1.2 Zero Year 1.1.3 Gaining Allies 1.1.4 Early Career
1.1.1 Origins
1.1.2 Zero Year
1.1.3 Gaining Allies
1.1.4 Early Career
1.2 New 52 1.2.1 The Midas Touch 1.2.2 Triple Threat 1.2.3 Harrow 1.2.4 The Kill Machine 1.2.5 The Outsiders War 1.2.6 Broken 1.2.7 Outbreak
1.2.1 The Midas Touch
1.2.2 Triple Threat
1.2.3 Harrow
1.2.4 The Kill Machine
1.2.5 The Outsiders War
1.2.6 Broken
1.2.7 Outbreak
1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 The Death and Life of Oliver Queen 1.3.2 Island of Scars 1.3.3 Emerald Outlaw 1.3.4 The Rise of Star City 1.3.5 Hard-Traveling Hero 1.3.6 The Death of Roy Harper 1.3.7 Event Leviathan 1.3.8 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
1.3.1 The Death and Life of Oliver Queen
1.3.2 Island of Scars
1.3.3 Emerald Outlaw
1.3.4 The Rise of Star City
1.3.5 Hard-Traveling Hero
1.3.6 The Death of Roy Harper
1.3.7 Event Leviathan
1.3.8 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Re-Joining the Justice League 1.4.2 Checkmate 1.4.3 Deep Target 1.4.4 Dark Crisis
1.4.1 Re-Joining the Justice League
1.4.2 Checkmate
1.4.3 Deep Target
1.4.4 Dark Crisis
1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Reunion 1.5.2 Beast World 1.5.3 Agent of the Wall 1.5.4 Absolute Power
1.5.1 Reunion
1.5.2 Beast World
1.5.3 Agent of the Wall
1.5.4 Absolute Power
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Abilities
2.1 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Early Life
Origins
While in high school, Oliver rolled his car on a curve and ended up in the hospital with more than a few broken bones. Robert wouldn't stop crying. When Oliver asked him why, his father told him, "Because you're me." [ 3 ]
During his college years, Oliver dated Sandra Hawke ; in the process, he fathered a son: Connor Hawke .  Though he was present for Connor's birth, he would not remain in his son's life, abandoning Connor and Sandra. [ 4 ]
As the young heir to a billion dollar corporate dynasty at Queen Industries , Oliver Queen was a wild socialite. His behavior so shamed his father Robert that he was relegated to clerical work on an oil rig in the Pacific . Naturally, Oliver turned the rig into a hub for his parties. At one such party, a helicopter meant to be carrying a famous rock star was commandeered by oil-thieving terrorists, who soon took over the rig.
Against the warnings of his friend Tommy Merlyn , Oliver recklessly faced the terrorist leader armed with only a bow and arrow, courtesy of his father's to this point fruitless training. The terrorists were armed with a detonator to a battery of explosives, including some which they had strapped to Oliver's girlfriend Leena. Oliver managed to shoot the detonator out of the terrorist's hand, but it bounced and activated, blowing up half the rig, and killing Leena. Fortunately for Oliver, his life was saved by Tommy - but his friend had taken the brunt of the blast, and was very badly burnt. After this, Oliver washed up on the shore of Starfish Island , and was forced to survive with only his bow and arrow for a year.  He faced many trials and tribulations during his time there, including brief imprisonment and torture by a pair of masked figures. [ 5 ] .  Eventually he was rescued, and returned to civilization a changed man.
Zero Year
Oliver returned during the Zero Year , and subsequently learned about the Gotham blackout, and the fact that his mother Moira Queen went there to help. Realizing that his mother could be in danger, Oliver insisted on going straight to Gotham to find her. She was being targeted by Killer Moth , who was stopped with the combined efforts of Batman and the debuting Green Arrow. [ 6 ]
Gaining Allies
One month after becoming the Green Arrow, Oliver became injured one night, bleeding out and in need of assistance. He payed a visit to his company's head of security, John Diggle . After Diggle patched Oliver up, Oliver asked him to join him in his crusade to protect the city. Oliver trusted Diggle due to him not revealing his identity to anyone or telling anyone he was back, and the fact that Diggle was willing to protect Oliver's mother's life with his own. Diggle joined Oliver's crusade and the two operated as a team to protect the city. [ 6 ]
Shortly after his debut, Oliver inadvertently began a lifelong blood feud with Malcolm Merlyn , member of the League of Assassins when he beat him in an archery contest at a circus [ 7 ] , likely compounded by Oliver's involvement in the apparent death of Merlyn's son, Tommy.
One evening, Oliver made a visit to a local mall; coincidentally, this mall was being squatted in by Roy Harper , who hacked the mall's camera feeds in order to hide his presence.  While Oliver was making his visit, Roy picked his pocket.  Oliver soon realized it, and, when he came to get the wallet back, was intrigued by the strange boy.  After some discussion, Oliver decided to take him in, with Roy working as tech support for Oliver.  Though they worked together for some time, Roy began to want to work in the field, and Oliver was reluctant to let him put himself in danger, remembering Tommy's warnings that his recklessness would get people killed. [ 8 ]
Following the apparent death of Moira Queen, Oliver withdrew from his role as Green Arrow and began heavily drinking.  Diggle confronted him about it, and the following argument resulted in Diggle quitting.
Early Career
Oliver, with Roy as Speedy
Roy and Oliver eventually began working alongside one another in the field, with Roy using his nickname 'Speedy' as a codename. While working as his sidekick, Roy designed Green Arrow's elaborate trick arrows, much to the Oliver's frustration. [ 8 ] At some point, he grew a goatee.
He would later become a member of the Justice League, though his outspoken positions would frequently render him an outsider.  During this period Ollie would regularly have adventures with Hal Jordan , the Green Lantern , and Dinah Drake Lance who acted as secondary mentors to Roy. [ 9 ]
Out of what some believed was a desperate desire to be Batman, Oliver constructed the 'Arrow-Cave', an underground hideout analogous to the Bat-Cave .  He used the facility to house a good deal of memorabilia over the course of his career, including statues of his rogues gallery and a map of Starfish Island. [ 10 ]
In the original New 52 continuity, Oliver did not have a history with the Justice League, and didn't join  the league until much later, when Amanda Waller founded a version of the Justice League of America.  This was later revised by subsequent continuity changes.
At some point, Oliver, Dinah, and Roy made a trip to a haunted house in Star City; Roy had a blast, but Oliver kept his eyes closed the entire time. [ 11 ]
Early on in their respective careers, a conflict with the Clock King resulted in Oliver and Roy being displaced in time, arriving in the 1940s. While stuck there, they became core members of the Seven Soldiers of Victory .  Oliver also shaved his beard during this period, later citing a belief that during the 1940s, only bad guys had beards.  Eventually, the Seven Soldiers themselves were lost in time fighting the celestial huntsman Neh-Buh-Loh , an incident that also resulted in the apparent deaths of Lee Travis and Wing How .
This battle caused Oliver and Roy to return the present day, though their absence in their own time had done serious damage to their relationships in the present day.  As a result of this excursion, Oliver and Roy had the peculiar distinction of being both the 'golden age' and modern iterations of a heroic mantle, though they had no way of knowing this when they first took up the titles. [ 12 ] Following their excursion to the Golden Age, Oliver began to use the Arrow-Cave less and less, but not before installing a memorial to the original Seven Soldiers. [ 13 ]
While Roy was in High School, his grades started slipping as a result of lack of enthusiasm and his attention being spread too thin between his work with Oliver and his escapades with the Teen Titans. On the advice of fellow leaguers Batman and Flash , Oliver attempted to reorient his parenting style. He benched Roy as Speedy, stating that he'd be allowed to return to his role as Speedy when his grades recovered. This continued for nine weeks; while Roy's grades did show drastic improvement, he was miserable. After some tension, he eventually allowed Roy to resume his role as Speedy after they talked it over and Oliver apologized to Roy for his shortcomings as a parent and made it clear to Roy that his dream for him was for him to have a full life in every aspect, not just as a Superhero. [ 14 ]
However, when Roy became addicted to painkillers and subsequently began to abuse harder drugs, Oliver reacted poorly, essentially casting his ward out. Though he eventually came to his senses, their relationship was permanently altered.
When Hal Jordan became possessed by the fear-thing, Parallax , Oliver was involved in efforts to defeat his former ally during the Crisis in Time , and in the end, he shot an arrow into the heart of his longtime friend. [ 15 ] Oliver later died, and despite his attempt on Jordan's life, a portion of the real Hal managed to fight its way to the surface, and, using his power as Parallax, resurrected Oliver Queen in a new body.
While Oliver was deceased, his estranged son, Connor Hawke took over his role as the Green Arrow. Oliver was later reborn. [ 16 ]
Like many heroes whose careers had birthed legacies, Oliver was greatly effected by the consequences of the Flashpoint , which resulted in him forgetting the existence of his son and much of his time with the Justice League and his longtime paramour, Dinah Lance.
New 52
The Midas Touch
Oliver had begun using his subsidiary technology company Q-Core as a front for his activities as Green Arrow with the help of hacker Naomi Singh and an engineer, Jax . These activities, though, interfered with his real job as the CEO of Queen Industries, much to the annoyance of his father's old friend Emerson, who was the head of the board of directors. [ 17 ]
Even as he was warned that he'd be removed from the board if he didn't do PR for Q-Core, Oliver was on the trail of super-criminal Rush , who was achieving fame by posting videos of his crimes on the internet. [ 18 ] After spending a harrowing evening fighting Rush, Oliver defeated him. To meet Emerson's demands, he held a press conference to warn against giving up a life of accomplishment for one of apps and videos. This only served to anger Emerson, as it essentially condemned Q-Core's products as a waste of time. [ 19 ]
Green Arrow faces Midas
With Oliver's assistant, Adrien, acting as his proxy at Queen Industries, Emerson gave her veto power to overrule Oliver's business decisions, further weakening his grasp on the company he was born into. [ 20 ] Meanwhile, an assassin called Blood Rose and her companion Midas had staked a claim on the Seattle waterfront, taking control of it's gangs. She had also targeted the billionaire Oliver Queen for death, unaware that he was the same man that had been interrupting her gang activities. [ 21 ]
When a surprise fight with Blood Rose leaves her injured, Midas attempted to kidnap Adrien to lure out Green Arrow for revenge. [ 22 ] Green Arrow managed to get Adrien to safety and briefly overcome Midas with his trick arrows , though Blood Rose appeared to rescue him, sparing Green Arrow's life in favour of killing Oliver Queen.
After returning to his base, Naomi revealed that Blood Rose was actually an android - and they could track her. This led to Green Arrow successfully breaking into her hide-out, effectively catching the duo off guard. After a battle in which Oliver managed to injure Midas, a short chase led to him blowing up Blood Rose using a trick arrow.
Oliver returned her remains to Midas, who admitted he had built her, and fallen in love with her as well - but was interrupted in his mourning when her robotic head began to count down to a self-destruct, requiring Oliver to run for his life. Midas and Blood Rose were both presumed dead, though, unknown to Team Arrow, Midas survived, and began the journey to Metropolis in hope of repairing his lost love. [ 23 ]
Triple Threat
The Skylark attack Green Arrow
Swamped by work that had backed up for months, Oliver contemplated giving up his civilian life in favour of being Green Arrow full time. He was surprised to be attacked by three young women in his office who, once apprehended, claimed to be big fans of his. The three of them all went by the moniker " Skylark ", rather than individual names. Highly attracted to them, Oliver was compelled to use the company's private jet to fly them all back to Canada with him to see their lab, where they and their father Leer had been genetically combining insects and animals with metal. Whilst landing the girls attacked him again, and caused his jet to crash, creating the illusion that Oliver Queen had died. Naomi was forced to pretend the jet had been stolen in order to prevent Emerson from seizing the company. [ 24 ]
Though Oliver escaped Skylark, he was attacked by genetically modified wolves. He refused to kill them, and that refusal saw one of the Skylark return to explain that the attack had been a test by her father, who had thus been convinced that he was a good man. As they returned, she explained that pollution had caused a hole in the Earth called the Deadzone, and her father had gone mad while trying to genetically modify animals to survive it. Investigating her father's experiments, the pair were attacked by him once he learned that Oliver did not approve of them. After a fight with a genetically modified polar bear, they escaped.
Meanwhile, Emerson leaked news of Oliver's death to the press, as Naomi and Jax put forward a plan to use Robert Queen's will against him. They had learned that if anyone intended harm toward Oliver, all of Emerson's control over the company would be forfeit - but only if Oliver was really alive. Fortunately, they managed to track him to the Arctic . [ 25 ]
Oliver learned that the Skylark could not survive when separated from each other, and the sister he had grown to trust had grown ill. They discovered a village of miners who had their claims overtaken by Leer, and their river filled with cyanide. During some downtime, one of Oliver's companion's triplet sisters secretly took her place, but left by morning. The replaced sister followed Oliver into the mines with some borrowed dynamite, unaware that her evil sister had drawn Oliver a map. They arrived in a trap, Leer claiming that she had betrayed Oliver, Oliver believed him, thanks to all of the previous deceptions. Meanwhile, the dynamite blew, burying all of Leer's labs under an avalanche. With Oliver's trust lost, the one good sister decided to stay with her doomed family, as Oliver was saved by Naomi in a helicopter. [ 26 ]
After returning to Seattle, Oliver foiled a plan by a man called Dr. Cognate to sell brainwashed humans as robotic slaves. [ 27 ] Despite feeling his company slipping from his grasp, Oliver put a stop to a pair of archers called the Dark Arrows, who were acting on behalf of the Occupy movement . In the meantime, Jax and Naomi had grown tired of Oliver's decline, and planned to quit working for him as Green Arrow. The loss of Q-Core to Emerson caused the majority stock to be sold off to a Chinese businessman named Jin Fang , who offered to sell it back to Oliver in exchange for some controversial facial-recognition software that would make him a surveillance superpower - with questionable ethics. [ 28 ]
Due to tense international relations with China , Oliver's visit there provided him with numerous difficulties - not the least of which his disinterest in giving up his technology to a man like Jin Fang. [ 29 ] Allying with a Chinese agent named Suzie Ming, Oliver found himself in a battle with ghosts of Jin Fang's ancestors. Though they made it out alive, Oliver ultimately decided to give up his technology, though with a modification that allowed Suzie Ming to keep her own eyes on Jin Fang's activities. [ 30 ]
Harrow
Back in Seattle again, Oliver had an encounter with Hawkman , resulting in a tentative alliance. [ 31 ] Afterwards, he dumped a weapons shipment into the harbor, angering the buyer, Harrow, enough to put a $50,000 hit on Green Arrow's head. Using the bounty to his advantage, Oliver drew out an assassin and beat an address out of him, learning of a dog-fighting ring owned by Harrow. After breaking into it, Harrow was so enraged that he doubled the bounty as he was carried away by police. [ 32 ]
Later, Harrow's girlfriend revealed that there was a warehouse full of explosives, with which Harrow's mutinous thug Pike intended to blow up both himself and the stash during the Sea Day Parade. They arrived in time to convince Pike to stop, but Harrow had already escaped jail and arrived on the scene. The struggle on the roof caught the authorities' attention, and Oliver hooked Harrow and his girlfriend to a police chopper's rescue cable. Pike, unfortunately, accidentally activated the detonator, giving Oliver just thirty seconds to save both of their lives. The explosion that followed was mistaken for a fireworks display by parade-goers. [ 33 ]
The Kill Machine
Oliver learned via the newspaper that Emerson had sold Queen Industries to a rival called Stellmoor Industries. When confronted, Emerson explained that he lost Queen Industries because he was too focused on keeping Oliver on track with Q-Core. He explained that Oliver had never been ready to accept the Queen legacy. Before Oliver could question that, one of his own arrows crashed through the window, and killed Emerson. A line attached to the arrow yanked Emerson's body out, and down onto the street, attracting the authorities' attention, and placing blame for the crime on Oliver.
Hoping to escape to Q-Core to regroup with Naomi and Jax, Oliver was horrified to see the building explode with his friends inside, just after receiving a cryptic message suggesting that they had been forced to do something. Frightened, Oliver suited up in one of his safe-houses, and emerged to find himself at the mercy of a superior bowman calling himself Komodo , who claimed that Oliver had squandered his destiny. Oliver's life was saved at the last by a stranger called Magus , who claimed that Oliver was never supposed to have left the island he was stranded on. [ 34 ]
In order not to be found, Oliver hid in a shipping container, and woke to find a note from Magus urging him to go to the Black Mesa in Arizona . Meanwhile, Oliver begged Steve Trevor and the JLA to keep the heat off of him for 48 hours, to clear his own name. For help, Oliver sought out an ex-employee named Henry Fyff who was fired for stalking Naomi. Together, they returned to Queen Industries, where Oliver snuck into Emerson's office and discovered a secret room. In it, he discovered a photo showing his father with Emerson and another man on the beach of the island on which he was stranded for a year. Magus appeared, warning Oliver to go to Black Mesa for answers, before Komodo killed him, and offered a cryptic hint about something called the Outsiders . It was too late for Oliver to leave, though, as the police soon arrived. He attempted to rappel out through the still broken window, but Komodo cut the line, and he found himself plummeting to the ground. [ 35 ]
Though he survived the fall, the run-in with the police at the office made Green Arrow a wanted man. Unbeknownst to Oliver, Naomi had been kept alive, watched by Komodo's young but cruel daughter Emiko . She was forced to watch as Komodo caught up to Oliver and beat him within an inch of his life, while he admitted that it was he who murdered Robert Queen. Despite his weakness, Oliver managed to regain the upper-hand, until Emiko herself appeared, and saved her father with her own archery skills. As they escaped, Oliver passed out from the pain and blood loss of being pierced by several arrows, leaving Henry to rescue him. [ 36 ]
Komodo belonged to a group called the Arrow Clan, and his superiors were angered to learn that Oliver Queen still lived, warning him to complete his task, or return to Prague . Meanwhile, Henry discovered from the Q-Core feed that Naomi was still alive, and woke Oliver to tell him. Following the clues, Oliver determined that she was being held at the Queen Family Mausoleum, and set out, despite the fact that his wounds hadn't healed. When he found her, she had been rigged with explosives, and he left Henry to defuse them while he chased down Komodo. In their fight, Oliver thrust an arrow into Komodo's eye, but before he could unmask him, he threw a smoke-bomb and escaped. Naomi, freed of the explosives, insisted that she help Green Arrow as vengeance.
Finally heeding Magus' advice, Oliver travelled to Black Mesa, where he was stopped on the highway by a sheriff, and knocked unconscious. He woke in the desert with nothing to his name and nothing to survive on. [ 37 ] After days of starvation and wandering, Oliver finally discovered Magus' tent. The man offered answers in the form of a hallucinogenic, giving Oliver visions of the past. His father had been obsessed with finding the home of the Arrow Clan, and had brought Emerson and his friend Simon Lacroix on a journey to find it. His obsession had left his company and family floundering, and bothered Emerson greatly.
Magus appeared to Oliver in the hallucination, explaining that the Arrow Clan was just one of several clans from which the leaders were chosen to become members of an elite circle called the Outsiders. Each clan had a totemic weapon, and each leader wielded that weapon, which was said to imbue true enlightenment. Simon Lacroix had learned of this, and killed Oliver's father in order to make himself the leader of the Arrow Clan, following Oliver's own failure to follow in his father's footsteps. In fact, it had been Emerson who arranged to send Oliver to the island with nothing but a bow in order to force him to be ready for Komodo's eventual challenge.
After coming down, Oliver met with a man called John Butcher , who was leader of the Axe Clan. Magus warned that the pair would have to trust each other if they intended to bring down the Outsiders. In accordance with a vision of a three-headed dragon that Oliver saw, Magus advised him to seek out the second dragon in the eastern European country of Vlatava . With this in mind, Oliver returned to Seattle, giving up any hope of running Queen Industries, and deciding to fight against corporations as a street-level vigilante. [ 38 ]
Green Arrow and Shado
Following Magus' advice, Oliver travelled to Vlatava, where the second dragon was supposed to be. He and his friends assumed that the dragon would likely be connected in some way to the international criminal and ruler of the country; a man called Werner Zytle . After breaking into Zytle's compound, Oliver discovered a woman imprisoned in the basement. When she saw him, she initially mistook him for his father Robert, but soon realized that he must be his son. Their escape attempt was thwarted by Zytle, who had christened himself Count Vertigo . He seemed to be using electromagnetic energy to disorient them and alter their perception of balance. Thanks to some inventiveness by Henry Fyff, Oliver's quiver was used to detonate an EMP blast, to nullify the effects of Vertigo's power. Rather than fight him, the woman and Oliver escaped. Afterwards, the woman introduced herself as Shado and revealed that she was the mother of Komodo's ward Emiko, who was in fact Robert Queen's daughter, and therefore, Oliver's half-sister. [ 39 ]
The Outsiders War
Broken
Outbreak
Oliver encountered the deadly assassin, Deathstroke , during his hunt to find Doctor Miracle, a man whose blood could heal anything. Oliver ran into Slade when he arrived in Africa to retrieve Doctor Miracle, where Deathstroke was attempting to do the same. The two engaged in a fight that Deathstroke ultimately won. Deathstroke then impaled Oliver with his sword, seemingly killing him, although Oliver survived due to Slade being unaware that the blade had some of Doctor Miracle's blood on it. [ 40 ]
Rebirth
The Death and Life of Oliver Queen
Fall of the Emerald Archer
At some point, Oliver slept with Diggle's ex-fiance, and the resulting tension caused Diggle to once again leave Team Arrow. He also began wearing a new, modified costume, storing the old one in the old Arrow-Cave alongside various former uniforms and memorabilia. [ 41 ]
Oliver and Black Canary started to investigate an underground group that were trafficking the Seattle homeless population in a Queen Industries shipping container. [ 42 ] After seeking advice of an old business partner, Cyrus Broderick , Oliver was attacked on his home by Shado and later Emiko, who shot multiple arrows at him. [ 43 ] He was then thrown into the ocean and believed to be dead,  while also framed for murder. In reality, Oliver survived and arrived at Puget Sound, where he used Emiko's beacon to send a signal to Henry Fyff, who rescued him.
Returning to his city, he saw how his home was destroyed and his money lost due to his presumed death. Oliver then returned to the old Doomsday Cellar that he built in the Rainier Wilderness to form a plan against Cyrus Broderick, who took over his company. [ 44 ]
Island of Scars
Oliver and Black Canary defeat Eddie Fyers!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Emerald Outlaw
Oliver and Team Arrow save Seattle from Malcom Merlyn's terror!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Rise of Star City
Oliver defeats The Ninth Circle!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Hard-Traveling Hero
Oliver hunt for The Ninth Circle causes tensions with The Justice League!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Death of Roy Harper
Event Leviathan
Oliver and other heroes investigate Leviathan!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
Green Arrow Prime Earth 0012.jpeg
Oliver brings The fight to The Dark Knights!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Infinite Frontier
Re-Joining the Justice League
Oliver re-joins The Justice League!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Checkmate
Oliver, The Justice League and Checkmate work together!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Deep Target
"Aquaman" and "Green Arrow"
A construction worker named Alex Santos was killed in an accident while illegally working after hours on a building site in Seattle , leaving behind a wife and three children. Alex and his coworkers had been paid under the table to work after hours as the project was behind schedule. Hoping to bring the people responsible for Alex's death to justice, Oliver broke into the office of the CEO of the company Alex worked for. The man revealed that the company was a front for Scorpio and Oliver's investigation lead him to a small building in Star City . Oliver broke into the building and found himself in a seemingly infinite hallway. He met his teammate Aquaman in the hallway as they fought off henchmen, and they realized that the infinite hallway was an illusion. Arthur stole a pair of goggles from a henchman which allowed him to see the building as it truly was. He spotted a door and the two went through it, finding a laboratory seemingly with a group of hostages bound in the center. Oliver rushed over to save them but Arthur could not hear the hostages and realized they were an illusion. When Oliver reached the hostages the hologram deactivated, revealing that they were standing on a high-tech platform. Arthur tried to tackle Oliver off the platform, while at the same time he shot out the platform's main projector. It was in fact a time travel platform developed by Scorpio, and the resulting accident caused the two men to switch lives and histories. [ 45 ]
Oliver awoke to find that he now possessed Arthur's powers and he was recognized by everyone as "Oliver Curry", the Aquaman and King of Atlantis. He correctly assumed that Arthur must now be living his life and took to spending nights in a drained throne room waiting for him to arrive. Eventually Arthur did come to Atlantis but he mistakenly believed that Oliver was responsible for what happened and attacked him, despite Ollie's attempts to talk to him. Arthur was armed with trick arrows designed to exploit Ollie's new weaknesses and put up a good fight, but eventually Oliver overpowered him. Once he was able to get Arthur to calm down and listen, he convinced him that he had not intentionally stolen his life and the two teamed up to find out what had happened. [ 1 ] They planned to go to S.T.A.R. Labs in Arthur's jet, but one of the pilots was a Scorpio agent who redirected them to a remote island where they were attacked by General Anderton , the leader of Scorpio's time travel project. [ 46 ] Anderton overpowered them and took them to Scorpio's base on the moon where he tortured them for information, trying to determine exactly how the accident had occurred. During the interrogation, Arthur realistically faked his death using a technique Oliver had learned in Nanda Parbat and which he now remembered. When Scorpio medics untied him to check him over, he escaped and freed Oliver. They fought their way out, only to find that the facility was on the moon. [ 45 ]
The two fought their way to the base's hanger and stole a rocket to escape back to Earth. Scorpio satellites fired on the rocket and forced them to crash-land in the Atlantic Ocean. Arthur almost drowned and they were attacked by a school of predatory fish, but Oliver was able to use his telepathy to get the fish to leave them alone and carry Arthur to the surface. Oliver swam to Amnesty Bay, only to find it inhabited by humanoid dinosaurs. When Arthur woke up they were attacked by dinosaur police officers and rescued by General Anderton. [ 47 ] Anderton explained that when they escaped he had activated the "Tabula Rasa protocol", whereby Scorpio operatives would be sent into the prehistoric past to allow Scorpio to control history from the very beginning. Safeguards intended to ensure that operatives landed safely failed and many were killed instantly, the few survivors were fused with dinosaurs in the same way General Anderton was. This altered the timeline to such an extent that dinosaurs survived into the 21st Century and sentient, humanoid dinosaurs were Earth's dominant life form. As Anderton, Oliver and Arthur had previously been through the time platforms, they were unaffected by the changes to the timeline.
Anderton believed they could return to the original timeline by travelling back to the earliest point in time Scorpio had ever visited, marked by a device called a "time stamp", before any of the operatives arrived, and from there jump into the beam of Scorpio's first ever time travel experiment. The three of them constructed a working time machine and returned to the original timeline at a point two years in the past. As a side effect, Oliver became Green Arrow again. [ 48 ]
The three of them managed to destroy Scorpio's prototype time machine and capture the technicians, but General Anderton's younger self got away. The future version of Anderton chased after him, and Aquaman followed them both, assuming that Anderton was planning to betray them. Oliver called the Martian Manhunter and asked him to join them, the followed Arthur and the Andertons. The younger Anderton had fled to a lake, where a liopleurodon was somehow living. This, along with the fact that Anderton had not reverted to human form indicated that the timeline had still been altered. The older Anderton claimed to not know what had happened but Arthur and Oliver did not believe him. Arthur had the liopleurodon drag the future version of Anderton into the lake and while he was underwater, Oliver captured and hid the human version of Anderton, replacing him with J'onn. Arthur and Oliver handed the Scorpio technicians and the future Anderton over to the authorities, while J'onn went on the prison transport disguised as the younger Anderton to scan their minds.
Oliver asked Arthur to search his memories for anomalies. Arthur claimed that everything was the way it should be and that he needed to get back to Atlantis immediately. Oliver was a little suspicious but not worried, giving Arthur a communicator so they could stay in touch. He took the human version of Anderton to prison personally, and J'onn told him that the future Anderton was telling the truth and did not know why the timeline had not returned to normal. Oliver tried to call Arthur but he did not pick up. [ 49 ]
After five days of silence from Arthur, the younger version of General Anderton escaped from prison, killing the other incarcerated Scorpio agents except his older self who managed to get away. Anderton joined up with Oliver and told him that Scorpio had conducted other time travel experiments that most of the agents had not known about and that their plan had not undone. As such, Scorpio maintained control of the timeline and in order to completely undo their influence they would have to travel back again and sabotage Scorpio's network or time stamps before it was first brought online.
Three days later Oliver returned to Atlantis , demanding that Arthur explain himself, but was captured by the Atlantean Guard and imprisoned in The Aquarium, Atlantis' maximum security prison. Arthur visited Oliver in prison and apologized, but told him that he could not give up this new reality, where he, his mother and brother were a loving family. However, he reluctantly agreed when Oliver told him that the changes to the timeline had made the lives of many other worse, for example, in this timeline Alex Santos was not simply killed on a building site but fell asleep at the wheel and accidentally drove off the freeway, killing both himself and two of his children.
Arthur and Oliver headed for the moon in a spaceship flown by the older General Anderton, while Oliver took out the base's defenses using laser cannons controlled by his bow. When they reached the moonbase they were attacked by the younger General Anderton, who had been given super-strength by drugs. Arthur fought the other Anderton while Arrow and the future version of Anderton went to the time travel laboratory. They built "time bands" to protect themselves from changes to the timeline and fought off a flock of dinosaurs that Scorpio had set to guard the lab. Anderton escaped into the past while Oliver went to take the band to Arthur.
The younger Anderton tried to kill them by deactivating the base's shielding and sending them into space, but Oliver was able to shoot the time band towards Arthur with an arrow just in time. The timeline returned to normal and they found themselves back in the Scorpio laboratory in Star City, having just jumped off the time platform. They went back to Atlantis and visited Atlanna's memorial together. [ 50 ]
Dark Crisis
Justice League Incarnate summoned the Justice League to aid them against the Great Darkness , which was attempting to invade the Multiverse. Oliver had already resigned from the League after they learned of his role in Checkmate , but came along to help Black Canary.
The assembled heroes went to the Darkness' entry point in the ruins of the pre- Crisis multiverse, and found Pariah modifying his Antimatter Chamber to allow the Darkness to cross into the Multiverse. Pariah summoned the Dark Army to stop them and, while the other heroes battled the cosmic villains, Oliver was able to hit the chamber with an explosive arrow. The Dark Army disappeared but before he vanished Doomsday smashed Oliver. [ 51 ]
Oliver was critically injured and on the brink of death. Pariah sent the heroes into pocket universes designed to be personal paradise worlds for each of them. Their memories were rewritten to reflect their new reality, but Oliver subconsciously remembered Black Canary and kept escaping the worlds Pariah created for him to find her. After Oliver destroyed multiple worlds Pariah considered simply letting him die, but Black Canary begged him to create a world for them both, promising that if they were together they would accept whatever he gave them. [ 52 ]
Barry Allen and Hal Jordan managed to enter the paradise worlds, and with their help the Justice League were able to escape. They confronted Pariah, but he teleported away to Earth 0, warning them that their survival was tied to the paradise worlds, and they would cease to exist if they followed him. [ 53 ] Despite this, and Black Canary's warning that he was in particular personal danger, Oliver told the League that the world needed them and encouraged them to take the risk. Hal and Barry were able to combine their powers to teleport the League back to Earth 0 and into the fight against the Dark Army at the Hall of Justice , but Oliver did not appear with the others. [ 54 ]
Dawn of DC
Reunion
Oliver returns from his apparent death!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Beast World
Oliver helps save The Earth from turning into beasts!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Agent of the Wall
Oliver betrays Team Arrow and works with Amanda Waller!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Absolute Power
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Powers and Abilities
Abilities
Archery : First and foremost of Oliver's abilities is his prowess with a bow and arrow. Since his teenage years, Oliver had a natural skill in archery, and even received training from the master assassin, The Help . [ 55 ] [ 56 ] During his time on the island, Oliver became highly proficient with a bow, and later trained under Merlyn for a period of time, further mastering his skills. [ 57 ] He can use anything from the most simple bows, to complicated composite bows and trick arrows with full efficiency. He has even shown skill using a bow made of alien technology. [ 58 ] Oliver's aim is so great that he is able to ricochet arrows multiple times to take out groups of opponents. [ 43 ] With the aid of Green Lantern, Oliver was able to snipe an assassin on the moon, using a bow construct. [ 59 ] Oliver has fought opponents that normally couldn't be hurt with arrows, yet his skill allowed him to persevere. [ 60 ] [ 61 ]
Acrobatics
Aviation : Oliver can pilot airplanes like his old Arrowplane . [ 62 ]
Deception [ 63 ]
Disguise [ 63 ]
Driving [ 64 ]
Gadgetry
Hunting [ 65 ]
Indomitable Will : Oliver's willpower has allowed him to resist immense pain and use it to power through battles. [ 66 ] He has even been shown capable of resisting Count Vertigo's power. [ 65 ]
Interrogation [ 42 ]
Intimidation [ 42 ]
Investigation : Oliver is among the world's top detectives, having worked with Batman and a team of detectives to investigate Leviathan . [ 67 ]
Martial Arts : Oliver is a highly trained martial artist, having trained under Wildcat for a period of time. [ 58 ] Oliver has knowledge of various pressure points and holds, [ 68 ] and can quickly defeat groups of armed opponents before they can react. [ 34 ] Oliver's skills are so great that during their first encounter he even managed to defeat Deathstroke in a fight. [ 69 ] In one of thier encounters Oliver managed to get the upper hand in a fight with Shado despite being severely wounded as the assassin had already pierced all his limbs with arrows. [ 43 ] Oliver also trained Roy Harper in martial arts. [ 70 ] Boxing [ 58 ] Judo [ 71 ] Karate [ 68 ] Muay Thai [ 71 ]
Boxing [ 58 ]
Judo [ 71 ]
Karate [ 68 ]
Muay Thai [ 71 ]
Peak Human Condition : As a result of his rigorous training over the years, Oliver is at the upper end of natural human abilities. He uses a bow with a 150-pound draw weight, which has built up his strength over time. [ 72 ] Wildcat took notice of this during a boxing session with Oliver. [ 58 ] While enraged he has been able to overpower the superhuman Brick and almost beat him to death [ 73 ] and slam Richard Dragon against a concrete column with enough strength to crack it. [ 74 ] While riding his motorcycle, Oliver was strong enough to use the forward momentum to flip it and hurl the bike at an enemy. [ 64 ]
Pedagogy [ 70 ]
Stealth
Surveillance : Oliver is a keen observer, as he was capable of noticing that he was being followed by a sniper, who was hidden hundreds of feet away. [ 75 ]
Survival : After being stranded on a deserted island, Oliver was forced to survive with only his bow and arrow for a year. [ 5 ] During this time, Oliver taught himself to craft arrowheads, hunt for food, and skin animals for their hides, in order to make clothing. [ 65 ]
Swimming [ 64 ]
Tactical Analysis : Oliver can read an opponent's intentions through his stance and body language. [ 76 ]
Thievery [ 77 ] Pickpocketing : Oliver can steal a man's phone unnoticed even while fighting him. [ 76 ]
Pickpocketing : Oliver can steal a man's phone unnoticed even while fighting him. [ 76 ]
Throwing : Oliver is a master marksman and possesses great aim with projectile objects. He is able to pick up and throw virtually any object with deadly accuracy. [ 34 ]
Tracking [ 65 ]
Weaponry [ 63 ] Firearms [ 63 ] Swordsmanship [ 78 ] Stick Fighting [ 79 ]
Firearms [ 63 ]
Swordsmanship [ 78 ]
Stick Fighting [ 79 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Green Arrow Suit : The Green Arrow suit is used during missions. It includes a hood and quiver. [ 43 ]
Transportation
Arrowboat : (Formerly)
Arrowcar : (Formerly)
Arrowplane [ 62 ]
Weapons
Compound Bow : Oliver uses a green compound bow. [ 80 ]
Trick Arrows : Oliver uses assorted trick arrows.
Combat Dagger [ 81 ]
Notes
Green Arrow was created by Mort Weisinger and George Papp , first appearing  in More Fun Comics #73 . However, Green Arrow first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Green Arrow (Volume 5) #1 by J.T. Krul and Dan Jurgens .
Green Arrow (Oliver Queen) appears as Green Arrow (Prime) a playable character in the Infinite Crisis video game.
Trivia
Oliver Queen as a warg.
Oliver considers himself a liberal in regards to his political views. [ 82 ]
Oliver considers Hal Jordan his best friend. [ 83 ]
In the New 52, Green Arrow was 25 years old; however, with the restoration of Prime Earth's full history and the inclusion of Connor Hawke in continuity, this age may no longer apply. [ 84 ]
For a brief period of time, Green Arrow (Oliver Queen) was a Warg . [ 85 ]
Oliver considers Roy Harper to be his son. [ 86 ]
Recommended Reading
Green Arrow (Volume  5)
Justice League United (Volume  1) : #0 - 10
Green Arrow (Volume  6)
Justice League (Volume  4) : #59 - 75
Dark Crisis: Worlds Without a Justice League - Green Arrow #1
Green Arrow (Volume  7)
Related
Appearances of Green Arrow (Oliver Queen)
Images featuring Green Arrow (Oliver Queen)
Quotations by or about Green Arrow (Oliver Queen)
Character Gallery: Green Arrow (Oliver Queen)
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #1
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #15
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 6) #37
↑ DC Festival of Heroes: The Asian Superhero Celebration #1
↑ 5.0 5.1 Green Arrow (Volume 5) #0
↑ 6.0 6.1 Green Arrow (Volume 5) #25
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #6
↑ 8.0 8.1 Green Arrow (Volume 6) #18
↑ Infinite Frontier #2
↑ Stargirl: The Lost Children #2
↑ Deathstroke Inc. #5
↑ Stargirl Spring Break Special #1
↑ Stargirl: The Lost Children #2
↑ DC's Saved by the Belle Reve #1
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #4
↑ DC Festival of Heroes: The Asian Superhero Celebration #1
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #1
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #2
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #3
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #5
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #4
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #5
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #6
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #7
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #8
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #9
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #10
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #11
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #12
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #13
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #14
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #15
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #16
↑ 34.0 34.1 34.2 Green Arrow (Volume 5) #17
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #18
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #19
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #20
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #21
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #22
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #51
↑ Stargirl: The Lost Children #2
↑ 42.0 42.1 42.2 Green Arrow: Rebirth #1
↑ 43.0 43.1 43.2 43.3 Green Arrow (Volume 6) #1
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 6) #2
↑ 45.0 45.1 Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #3
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #2
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #4
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #5
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #6
↑ Aquaman/Green Arrow: Deep Target #7
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #75
↑ Dark Crisis: Worlds Without a Justice League - Green Arrow #1
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #5
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #6
↑ The Penguin #2
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #26
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #1
↑ 58.0 58.1 58.2 58.3 Green Arrow 80th Anniversary 100-Page Super Spectacular #1
↑ The Green Lantern #8
↑ Green Arrow (Volume  5)
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #8
↑ 62.0 62.1 Green Arrow Annual (Volume 6) #2
↑ 63.0 63.1 63.2 63.3 Green Arrow (Volume 7) #8
↑ 64.0 64.1 64.2 Green Arrow (Volume 6) #50
↑ 65.0 65.1 65.2 65.3 Green Arrow (Volume 5) #24
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #19
↑ Event Leviathan #1
↑ 68.0 68.1 Green Arrow (Volume 5) #7
↑ Deathstroke Inc. #12
↑ 70.0 70.1 Green Arrow (Volume 6) #19
↑ 71.0 71.1 Green Arrow (Volume 7) #4
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 6) #31
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #33
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #34
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #64
↑ 76.0 76.1 Green Arrow (Volume 5) #12
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 6) #3
↑ Green Arrow 2024 Annual (Volume 7) #1
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 6) #4
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 6) #27
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #9
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 6) #27
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #4
↑ Convergence: Speed Force #2
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 5) #49
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #10
This character was a member of the top secret government organization Checkmate . This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Checkmate members " and " Government Agents " categories.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of one or more of the teams known as the Outsiders . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Outsiders members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Seven Soldiers of Victory , or the Seven Soldiers in any of its various incarnations, created during World War II and later, it returned to battle time-traveling, dimension-spanning mysteries and monsters. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Seven Soldiers of Victory members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Green Arrow family of vigilante super-heroes, who fight crime using archery and martial arts. They are a loose connection brought together through family bonds and shared experiences. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Team Arrow members ."

Guy Gardner(disambiguation)
Green Lantern ( 2011 - Present ) Green Lantern Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Green Lantern ( 2011 - Present )
Guy Gardner is the third Green Lantern of Earth , and a member of the Green Lantern Corps assigned to Earth , known for his brash attitude and machismo. He has also been a member of Justice League International and the Red Lantern Corps . It is possible that history will determine Gardner to be the greatest Green Lantern of all time, although he is constantly in competition with his fellow Lanterns Hal Jordan , John Stewart and Kyle Rayner .
Guy Gardner was created by John Broome and Gil Kane , and first appeared in Green Lantern (Volume 2) #59 (1968).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Post-Crisis 1.4 Pre-Crisis 1.5 Elseworlds 1.6 Alternate timelines 1.7 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Post-Crisis
1.4 Pre-Crisis
1.5 Elseworlds
1.6 Alternate timelines
1.7 Possible Futures
2 Other media 2.1 Lego Dimensions 2.2 Others
2.1 Lego Dimensions
2.2 Others
3 Comics
Multiverse
The New 52
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Alternate timelines
Possible Futures
Other media
Lego Dimensions
Others
Comics
See Also: Guy Gardner Titles

Green Lantern (Hal Jordan)
Green Lantern Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Harold "Hal" Jordan Main Alias Green Lantern Other Aliases God of Light · Green Lantern 2814.1 · Parallax · Blackstar Parallax · Pol Manning [ 1 ] · Death Lantern · The Spectre [ 2 ] · Highball [ 3 ] Relatives Martin Jordan (father, deceased) · Jessica Jordan (mother) · Larry Jordan (uncle) · Jack Jordan (brother) · Jim Jordan (brother) · Susan Jordan (sister-in-law) · Harold Jordan (cousin) · Howard Jordan (nephew) · Jane Jordan (niece) · see Jordan Family for more Affiliation Green Lantern Corps , Justice League Unlimited · Formerly United States Air Force , Ferris Aircraft , Black Lantern Corps , Sinestro Corps , Blackstars , New Guardians Base Of Operations Oa · formerly Coast City , United States of America Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Green Lantern , Former Test Pilot Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 2" Weight 186 lbs (84 kg) Eyes Brown ·  White when using power ring Hair Brown Origin Universe Prime Earth Sector Sector 2814 Partner John Stewart Creators John Broome · Gil Kane First Appearance Flashpoint Vol 2  #5 ( October, 2011 )
Green Lantern
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Jessica Jordan (mother) · Larry Jordan (uncle) · Jack Jordan (brother) · Jim Jordan (brother) · Susan Jordan (sister-in-law) · Harold Jordan (cousin) · Howard Jordan (nephew) · Jane Jordan (niece) · see Jordan Family for more
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Sector
Partner
Creators
Hal Jordan is one of Earth 's Green Lanterns . A former military test pilot, he is now the protector of Sector 2814 . He is also a founding member of the Justice League .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.2 Becoming Green Lantern 1.3 Early Adventures 1.3.1 Rogues Gallery 1.3.2 The Justice League 1.4 New 52 1.4.1 Alliance with Sinestro 1.4.2 Secret of the Indigo Tribe 1.4.3 Revenge of Black Hand 1.4.4 Lights Out 1.4.5 Uprising 1.4.6 Renegade 1.5 DC Rebirth 1.5.1 New Lanterns 1.5.2 Return of the Lanterns 1.5.3 Quest for the Blue Lanterns 1.5.4 Fracture 1.5.5 Twilight of the Guardians 1.5.6 Doomsday Clock 1.5.7 Zod's Will 1.5.8 Darkstars Rising 1.5.9 Intergalactic Lawman 1.5.10 Blackstars 1.5.11 Death Metal 1.6 Infinite Frontier 1.6.1 Dark Crisis 1.6.2 Dawn of DC 1.6.3 Absolute Power 1.6.4 All In 1.6.5 Loose Threads 1.6.6 Red & Green
1.1 Early Life
1.2 Becoming Green Lantern
1.3 Early Adventures 1.3.1 Rogues Gallery 1.3.2 The Justice League
1.3.1 Rogues Gallery
1.3.2 The Justice League
1.4 New 52 1.4.1 Alliance with Sinestro 1.4.2 Secret of the Indigo Tribe 1.4.3 Revenge of Black Hand 1.4.4 Lights Out 1.4.5 Uprising 1.4.6 Renegade
1.4.1 Alliance with Sinestro
1.4.2 Secret of the Indigo Tribe
1.4.3 Revenge of Black Hand
1.4.4 Lights Out
1.4.5 Uprising
1.4.6 Renegade
1.5 DC Rebirth 1.5.1 New Lanterns 1.5.2 Return of the Lanterns 1.5.3 Quest for the Blue Lanterns 1.5.4 Fracture 1.5.5 Twilight of the Guardians 1.5.6 Doomsday Clock 1.5.7 Zod's Will 1.5.8 Darkstars Rising 1.5.9 Intergalactic Lawman 1.5.10 Blackstars 1.5.11 Death Metal
1.5.1 New Lanterns
1.5.2 Return of the Lanterns
1.5.3 Quest for the Blue Lanterns
1.5.4 Fracture
1.5.5 Twilight of the Guardians
1.5.6 Doomsday Clock
1.5.7 Zod's Will
1.5.8 Darkstars Rising
1.5.9 Intergalactic Lawman
1.5.10 Blackstars
1.5.11 Death Metal
1.6 Infinite Frontier 1.6.1 Dark Crisis 1.6.2 Dawn of DC 1.6.3 Absolute Power 1.6.4 All In 1.6.5 Loose Threads 1.6.6 Red & Green
1.6.1 Dark Crisis
1.6.2 Dawn of DC
1.6.3 Absolute Power
1.6.4 All In
1.6.5 Loose Threads
1.6.6 Red & Green
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Weapons
4 Oath
5 Notes
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Early Life
Hal was raised in a multi-religion household: his father was Catholic, while his mother was Jewish. [ 4 ]
As a child, Hal was traumatized by watching his father, a pilot, die in a plane crash. [ 5 ] Refusing to bow down to fear, he followed in his father's footsteps and became a military test pilot, despite being terrified every time he flew. [ 6 ]
Becoming Green Lantern
Years later, Hal had been kicked out of the military for assaulting an officer, and was reduced to an engineer giving planes tune-ups. He was abducted by a dying alien, Abin Sur . Sur wanted Hal to replace him in the Green Lantern Corps , an intergalactic police force that had safeguarded the universe for billions of years. [ 6 ]
Hal accepted and was summoned for basic training to the Corps headquarters on the planet Oa . On completion, he was assigned to Thaal Sinestro of Korugar . [ 6 ]
Early Adventures
Rogues Gallery
Hal and Sinestro worked well together and became friends. At some point, however, Hal discovered Sinestro had enslaved Korugar using his ring. He attacked Sinestro and turned him in to the Corps, earning Sinestro's lifelong enmity. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ]
At various points Hal has fought against Evil Star , [ 10 ] Black Hand [ 11 ] and Hector Hammond . [ 12 ]
The Justice League
Hal and The Justice League battle Starro
Hal was among the founding members of the Justice League . While the team's actual first meeting is debated, Hal helped defeat Darkseid's invasion and participated in the subsequent battle with the alien Appellaxians , which resulted in them nearly being turned into trees before emerging victorious. The heroes, inspired by their victory, formed a team, christening it the Justice League, establishing a headquarters in the form of the Secret Sanctuary in Happy Harbor . One of their earliest foes was Starro the Conqueror . [ 13 ] [ 14 ]
Following an encounter between Barry Allen and Jay Garrick , the Flashes of two heroic generations, the Justice Society of America fully came out of retirement to defeat the Crime Champions alongside their League sucessors. The two teams began to act together from this point forward to battle any threats too great for a single band of heroes, such as the Earth 3 Crime Syndicate , which included an evil version of Green Lantern known as Power Ring . [ 14 ]
Hal and Green Arrow, The Hard Traveling Heroes
At some point, Hal was possessed by Parallax in his despair following the destruction of Coast City . With the help of his friends he ultimately broke free, but the incident remained one of Hal's few fears. [ 5 ] [ 15 ] [ 12 ]
New 52
Alliance with Sinestro
After being stripped of his Green Lantern Ring by the Corps, Hal returned home, resigned. In his Coast City apartment, Jordan was hounded by his landlord for overdue rent. As he looked out the window, Hal noticed a woman in the building across the street being threatened. He jumped out his seventh story window, crashed through the window of the woman's apartment, and subdued her attacker. Only then does he look up to see the room filled with a camera crew and realized that the woman and her attacker are actors.
Sometime later, Carol Ferris arrived to bail Hal out of jail. She tells him it's time to move on with his life and offered Hal a job at Ferris Aircraft . Thinking it over, Hal asked Carol out on a date. Later that night, Hal and Carol were dining in a fancy restaurant. Hal tells Carol he will accept her offer for a job and then says he has something else to ask her: he needed her to co-sign a car lease for him. Carol then threw her drink in his face and stomped off. Hal chased after and tried to apologize, not realizing Carol was expecting a proposal. Thoroughly mad, Carol drove off, leaving Hal stranded in a growing rainstorm. Soaking wet, Hal finally arrived home only to find an eviction notice attached to his apartment door. The night is not over, however, as Sinestro was waiting and offered Hal a chance to regain his ring. [ 16 ]
Hal gets a ring from Sinestro.
Despite Sinestro's offer, Hal attacked him but Sinestro easily subdued him. Sinestro said that Hal's life had been very difficult lately without his ring. Then, Sinestro created a ring and placed it on Hal. Powered by the ring, Hal freed himself from the chains and blasted Sinestro with an energy beam. However, the beam did not affect Sinestro. Confused, Hal asked what was wrong with the ring and Sinestro stated that there was nothing wrong with it. Since the ring was created by Sinestro, he alone could control it. To prove his point, Sinestro powered down his ring and Hal fell to a rooftop. As he reactivated the ring, Sinestro proclaimed that Hal was his servant. Then, Hal heard emergency sirens and flew to see the problem, to Sinestro's annoyance. Hal and Sinestro watched as a bridge was about to collapse. Hal saved a woman, but Sinestro deactivated his ring and the woman fell into the water. Then, Sinestro fixed the entire bridge and saved all of the victims, including the woman. As Sinestro reactivated Hal's ring, Gorgor , a member of the Sinestro Corps and the one behind the bridge's collapse, attacked them. Sinestro fought Gorgor, proclaiming that all the members of his Corps gave into their sadistic urges instead of obeying the code of conduct he created. Then, he killed Gorgor with a sword construct. Sinestro told Hal that the Sinestro Corps had enslaved Korugar and he will help him destroy them. [ 17 ]
Sinestro explained to Hal that he needed him to liberate Korugar from the Sinestro Corps. If the other Green Lanterns got involved, there would be a massacre. Hal decided to go with Sinestro, but not before he said goodbye to Carol. However, Sinestro wouldn't let him, as the fate of Korugar was more urgent. Hal angrily punched Sinestro in the face, saying that Sinestro was not better than him. Sinestro simply laughed, saying that he was better than Hal, and he already knew it. Then, Sinestro flew off to Korugar, followed by a reluctant Hal.
Hal and Sinestro arrived at Korugar, and Sinestro revealed his plan: they were to stay hidden until sunset and Sinestro would fight the Corpsmen while Hal went to the Yellow Lantern Central Power Battery and deactivated it, as it could only be deactivated by a Green Lantern. Hal expressed confusion at Sinestro's decision of using a Green Lantern as a failsafe for the Yellow Battery but nevertheless went along with the plan. Sinestro changed his uniform's color to black, surprising Hal, as he didn't know the ring could do that.
As they hid in Korugar's ruins while waiting for the sunset, Hal and Sinestro watched as the Corpsmen enslaved the Korugarans and brought them to cells. Just as a Corpsman was about to kill a young Korugarian, another Korugarian named Arsona attacked him. Sinestro was surprised, as he knew Arsona. However, the Corpsman restrained her and prepared to kill her, and Sinestro decided to attack.
Hal, knowing that Sinestro was drawing their attention, gone for the Yellow Central Battery, where he was attacked by another Corpsman. Hal quickly killed him and entered the Battery, but the Battery blasted him, much to Sinestro's shock. [ 18 ]
As Hal was blasted by the Yellow Power Battery, he saw his relationship with Carol with another perspective. However, the Battery discovered that Hal wasn't Sinestro and stopped blasting him with energy. The Battery was not trying to disintegrate him; instead, it was trying to teleport him to the Antimatter Universe. As Hal lost consciousness, the Sinestro Corpsmen put him in a cell.
As Hal came to, he tried to get out of the cell; however, the cell had been designed to withstand green energy. As his ring's energy levels approached 0%, Hal used the last of his ring's power to create a construct of Carol.
The Corpsmen placed Sinestro in a cell alongside Hal's. Sinestro's cell was also filled with Korugarian prisoners. Hal listened to Sinestro talk with Arsona, who was personally upset with Sinestro's betrayal against Korugar. To get out of the cells, Hal suggested to Sinestro to create rings for the Korugarians, just like he created a ring for him. With power rings, the Korugarans would fight back against the Corpsmen. Sinestro was not sure about this plan, saying that the rings would only last ten minutes before disappearing, but Hal told him to try. Exerting himself, Sinestro managed to create rings for the Korugarans. However, the Korugarians, led by a vengeful Arsona, decided to use their new power to attack Sinestro instead. [ 19 ]
Hal and Sinestro fight the Sinestro Corps to save Korugar.
Hal asked Arsona and the Korugarians not to use their rings to attack Sinestro, as their rings wouldn't last long. Sinestro also said that the rings the Korugarians wielded cannot be used against Sinestro because he created them. To escape their cells, Sinestro remotely controlled his Power Battery, causing an explosion that destroyed the cells, allowing Sinestro, Hal and the Korugarians to escape and fight back.
Sinestro lent his battery to Hal so that he can recharge his ring. As the Korugarians fought the Corpsmen, Sinestro and Hal returned to the Yellow Central Power Battery to deactivate it. Hal asked Sinestro why he failed the first time he tried to deactivate the Battery, Sinestro answered that the Battery thought Hal was Sinestro because he was carrying his Battery and wore a ring he created. Sinestro told Hal that they had to use his Green Battery to extinguish the Yellow Battery's light, activating the Yellow Battery's survival mode, in which the Battery began retracting energy from the Corpsmen's rings, causing the Corpsmen to fall into a coma. The plan worked and the Corpsmen were incapacitated before they could inflict any serious harm on the Korugarians.
Although Korugar was saved, the Korugarians had mixed feelings toward Sinestro. Arsona, still angry at him, said that the Korugarians will always consider him to be their enemy. Hal and Sinestro took the Sinestro Corpsmen as prisoners and left Korugar.
Flying through space with the Battery and the Corpsmen under custody, Hal and Sinestro talked about recent events. Sinestro believed that the Guardians of the Universe were insidious and becoming a greater danger to the universe than he ever was, but Hal still denounced Sinestro's actions. Declaring their pact over, Sinestro de-charged Hal's ring, saying he could keep it, but he never stated he would provide a way to recharge when he made the deal in the first place. Then, Sinestro sent Hal back to Earth.
Returning to Earth, Hal resolved to find another way to recharge his ring, until he remembered Carol. Hal went to Ferris Aircraft and met Carol with a kiss, telling her about what happened in Korugar. He apologized for everything they had gone through, told her that he wanted her to be the last thing he saw before he died and promised to improve their relationship. She accepted Hal's apology and the two restarted their relationship. [ 20 ]
Hal resumed his life on Earth with Carol's help. During a date in the Coast City Aeronautical Museum, Hal defended a mechanic from some coworkers that attacked him because he caught them stealing plane parts. After the date, Hal told Carol that he didn't need to be Green Lantern.
The next morning, Hal and Carol woke up after spending the night together. Suddenly, Hal's ring attached itself to his finger and Sinestro appeared before them, saying that Hal was still of use to him. [ 21 ]
Secret of the Indigo Tribe
Hal refused to obey Sinestro's commands again, until Sinestro threatened Carol, causing Hal to attack him. As Hal and Sinestro fight, Sinestro held the advantage, as Hal's ring couldn't be used to hurt Sinestro, who effortlessly incapacitated Hal and told him about the Guardians' plans to replace the Green Lantern Corps.
Suddenly, Indigo-1 and a group of Indigo Lanterns appeared before Hal and Sinestro. Indigo-1 declared the Indigo Tribe's intentions to deal with Sinestro, saying that the Guardians' decision to allow Sinestro keep his Green Lantern ring was a mistake. Then, the Indigo Lanterns took Sinestro and teleported away, with Hal following them to the Indigo Tribe homeworld . The Indigo Lanterns knocked Hal out and placed him in a cell.
As Hal came to, he discovered his ring was discharged. Another prisoner begged Hal to free him, but an indigo energy blast knocked him out. Then, Black Hand appeared before Hal. Hal asked Black Hand what the Indigo Tribe wanted with Sinestro, and Black Hand replied that they were all saved. He said that Sinestro was no longer a worry and he would be reborn, just like he was. [ 22 ]
Black Hand told Hal that the Indigo Tribe would make Sinestro one of their own. He also showed Hal his ability to cycle through the emotional spectrum. Hal tricked him into channeling willpower and managed to recharge his ring. As Hal escaped from his cell, more Indigo Tribesmen came after him. He tried to elude them but realized he cannot fly. The ring told him that the energy Hal absorbed from Black Hand was simulated energy and the ring's power remained limited. Hal asked if he could still create constructs, and the ring replied that they are available but unreliable. Hal created a zip line and a motorcycle to escape from the Indigo Tribesmen.
Riding across the dungeon, Hal encountered a massive statue of Abin Sur. Touching a panel in the statue, Hal activated a series of holograms that said that Abin Sur was the creator and savior of the Indigo Tribe. He saved them all, beginning with his greatest enemy: Indigo-1. Suddenly, Hal was ambushed by the Indigo Tribe and Sinestro, who had been converted into an Indigo Lantern. [ 23 ]
As the Indigo Lanterns surrounded Hal, Sinestro expressed regret at everything he had done to Hal, but Hal didn't buy it, knowing that Sinestro was brainwashed. Hal asked Indigo-1 why are Indigo Lanterns attacking him, reminding her of the alliance between the Green Lantern Corps and the Indigo Tribe. Indigo-1 replies that the alliance still stands, and the Indigo Tribesmen will return him to Earth, but Sinestro will stay on the Indigo homeworld. Hal refuses to leave without Sinestro, so he escapes into the Forbidden Jungles, hoping to find the Indigo Central Battery.
Hal travels through the jungle and finds a mysterious being, who recognizes him as a Green Lantern. The being identifies himself as Natromo , and Hal recognizes his name from the Indigo Tribe oath. Natromo says that he didn't want his name to be used on the Indigo oath. He also says that "Nok," translated into human languages, means "compassion be with you," and is the name of the Indigo homeworld. Hal sees that Natromo is not wearing an Indigo ring, and asks him if he created the Indigo Tribe. Natromo replies that he created the Indigo Tribe along with another Green Lantern: Abin Sur.
Leading Hal to the Indigo Tribe Central Power Battery , Natromo explains to him the origins of the Indigo Tribe. It was he and Abin Sur who created the Indigo Lantern Rings so that he could create an army to fight in the Blackest Night . The Indigo Tribe was also meant to fight the Guardians because Abin had seen the future and discovered they would become corrupted. Natromo is preparing to attack the Guardians when Abin returns, but Hal says that Abin is dead.
Shocked, Natromo states that without Abin, they have no chance of defeating the Guardians. Saddened by Abin's death, Natromo detonates the Indigo Central Battery. At that moment, the Indigo Lanterns arrive, but the Battery's destruction deactivates their rings. Although Sinestro is freed from the ring's influence, the former Indigo Lanterns are released too. [ 24 ]
Hal and Sinestro run into the jungle, and Hal explains that the Indigo Tribesmen are in fact brainwashed criminals, but their Battery is dead and they have reverted to their former selves. Sinestro tries to fight, but Hal gets him into a jeep construct. Sinestro says that he doesn't need Hal's help, but Hal asks if Sinestro doesn't need him, why did he give him a ring in the first place. He was willing to get his life back on track, but because of the Guardians' plan, he will have to get involved in Green Lantern affairs again. Sinestro replies that Hal is a Green Lantern, and that is his life.
Suddenly, they stumble upon Natromo, and Hal imprisons him in a cage. Natromo pleads to be released so that he can say goodbye to his family, but Hal asks him to repair the Indigo Battery. Sinestro threatens Natromo by aiming a stake at his neck, but Hal convinces him that fear will not solve the problem. Sinestro decides to hold the Indigo Tribesmen off, while Hal and Natromo try to repair the Battery.
As Hal and Natromo get to the Battery, Natromo asks Hal how did he know Abin Sur. Hal replies that Abin was his predecessor in the Green Lantern Corps, he gave him his ring and responsibilities; and if that includes uniting the Indigo Tribe against the Guardians, then he will accept that responsibility as well. Hal inspires Natromo to believe in himself as much as he believed in Abin.
Natromo tries to repair the Battery, but he cannot reassemble the pieces without a single spark of compassion. Suddenly, Iroque enters the Battery chamber, begging them to repair the Battery. Hal and Natromo realize that even without her ring, Iroque is capable of feeling compassion. Using Iroque's compassion, Natromo successfully repairs the Battery, restoring the Indigo Tribe, including Sinestro.
Hal asks Natromo to let Sinestro go, but Natromo cannot do that; only the Indigo Tribe can release him. Indigo-1 agrees to let Sinestro go, but only if Hal helps him find redemption even without an indigo ring. Indigo-1 asks Hal if he believes Sinestro can be a hero again, and Hal replies that he wants to believe that. [ 25 ]
Revenge of Black Hand
Hal as the leader of the Black Lantern Corps
As the Indigo Tribe releases Sinestro, Natromo inverts the link between Hal's and Sinestro's rings. Now, Hal can control Sinestro's ring instead of the other way around. Unfortunately, Black Hand has escaped the Indigo Tribe's control. Indigo-1 teleports the two Lanterns to Korugar, where Sinestro has hidden the Book of the Black. As they read the Book to find out more about the Guardians' plans to replace the Green Lantern Corps, they are teleported right to Black Hand's old home. [ 26 ]
Hal summoning Nekron
After a lengthy fight with Black Hand's forces, Hal and Sinestro pass out after running out of power in their rings. [ 27 ] Black Hand buries Sinestro and Hal alive. Hal breaks free and fights against Black Hand, and is saved by Sinestro. The two of them fight Black Hand until the Guardians arrive, who command Black Hand to kill them. Black Hand opens a massive black vortex that sucks Hal and Sinestro within, but not before Hal and Sinestro fuse their rings together with an unknown message. [ 28 ] However, they are later revealed to have survived, but they are trapped in the mysterious Dead Zone. [ 29 ] As they venture through the Dead Zone, Hal and Sinestro find a mysterious cloaked figure. [ 30 ] The cloaked stranger reveals himself to be Tomar-Re , who asks Hal and Sinestro to stop Volthoom , the First Lantern, from destroying reality. [ 31 ]
The Return.
During a fight with Black Hand, Simon Baz (the new bearer of Hal's ring) enters the Dead Zone and meets Hal and Sinestro. [ 32 ] Simon attempts to get Hal and Sinestro out of the Dead Zone, but the ring can only take one of them. Sinestro claims the ring and escapes the Dead Zone by forcing Hal to experience a moment of fear when he threatens Hal with the loss of Carol. Hal contemplates committing suicide so he could harness Black Hand's ring, as it is the only way to leave the Dead Zone. [ 33 ] Later, Hal and Tomar-Re witness the arrival of the Korugarians at the Dead Zone, realizing that Volthoom destroyed Korugar. Running out of options, Hal finally jumps off a cliff. [ 34 ]
Just like old times
Acknowledging Hal's death, the black ring accepts him as its new wielder. Hal then contacts the Indigo Tribe, who open a portal between the realm of the living and the Dead Zone. Escaping from the Dead Zone, Hal unleashes a horde of the undead against Volthoom, but Volthoom easily destroys the army and nearly possesses Hal. After Sinestro, who has become Parallax's newest host, fails to kill Volthoom, Hal goes to the Dead Zone and unleashes Nekron , who finally kills Volthoom. After the battle ends, Hal lets go of the black ring and becomes a Green Lantern once again, sealing Nekron back into the Dead Zone. As Hal reunites with Carol, however, Sinestro reactivates his Sinestro Corps and goes to kill the Guardians for everything they have done. Hal attempts to stop him, but is too late and Sinestro has already killed the Guardians (except Ganthet and Sayd, whom he secretly keeps alive with the help of Larfleeze, to be exiled from Oa together forever, and one Guardian to end up being killed by Atrocitus, to settle his feud with them). Then, Hal asks Sinestro if they ever were really friends. Sinestro departs from Oa, saying that their greatest tragedy is that they will always be friends. [ 5 ]
Lights Out
Uprising
Renegade
As part of a scheme Kilowog called "hare-brained," Hal decided to frame himself in order to demonstrate to the universe that the Green Lantern Corps would even prosecute their own leader, repairing their reputation. He abandoned his ring and stole Krona's Power Gauntlet . [ 35 ]
Hal became a bounty hunter of sorts, but found that the Corps had mysteriously vanished, rendering his sacrifice pointless. [ 36 ] He spent some time investigating and defeating Black Hand , whose contact with the Source Wall had left him turning every planet he visited to contagious stone. [ 37 ]
DC Rebirth
New Lanterns
Following the disappearance of the Green Lantern Corps and the Guardians, Hal Jordan had shifted into a being of willpower from his use of Krona's Gauntlet , causing him to fade into energy. To counter this Jordan forged a new ring from his own willpower to stabilize his person and began a search for any remaining Lanterns. [ 38 ]
Sometime after this Darkseid War , Hal arranged a training exercise for new Lanterns Simon Baz and Jessica Cruz . After they failed to work together, Hal merged their power batteries forcing them to rely on one another to recharge their rings and making them partners. He also introduced them to the rest of the Justice League before leaving to find out what happened to the rest of the Corps. [ 39 ]
Return of the Lanterns
Main articles: Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps: Sinestro's Law (Collected) and Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps: Bottled Light (Collected)
Rebirth
Coming across Sector 563 Jordan attempted to stop the Sinestro Corps present, but became overwhelmed by the growing number and power of Sinestro's forces. [ 40 ] Captured but placed in the healing care of Yellow Lantern Soranik , who wished to stop her father, the now reinvigorated Jordan began a full assault on Warworld . Wreaking Havoc on the artificial world and downing countless Sinestro Corps members, Jordan was finally met by Sinestro himself. Combating his once friend, Jordan, with the Fear Engine failing and the area free of innocents released his the raw willpower building up inside him, seemingly taking him, Sinestro, and the Warworld out in one wave of raw willpower, leaving but his Ring in the wake. [ 41 ]
Following Sinestro's defeat, Jordan's ring drifted towards the prison planet of Nok in Sector 2814. Placing itself before two of the last Guardians of the Universe, Sayd and Ganthet . Meanwhile, Jordan found himself in the Emerald Space , an existential plane for those who gave their life to the cause, alongside the spirit of Abin Sur and various other fallen Lanterns, who warned Jordan of a coming threat. [ 42 ]
On the outside world with his life force draining from the ring, Ganthet called upon Kyle Rayner to revive Jordan. Returning to life and with a clear mind the news of the Corps safety sent Jordan out to find them alongside the rest. [ 43 ] Finding Mogo to be empty, the band was soon alerted by communications being reestablished under the warning of Larfleeze capture of the Corps. Joining the battle, Larfleeze fled leaving the Corps to reunite once more. [ 44 ]
Quest for the Blue Lanterns
Main article: Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps: Quest for the Blue Lanterns (Collected)
Jordan alongside Kyle was sent with the guardians to find The Blue Light of Hope on a dying world. However the two found Saint Walker under attack by the Misery Mound, a hope consumer and was subsequently captured themselves. Bombarding them with mental images to wane their hope, Jordan and Kyle connected with each other and destroyed the Mound allowing life to flourish on the world once again. Thereafter they departed with Walker to Mogo. [ 45 ] [ 46 ]
Within the GL command center Hal, Salakk , and John were approached by a ring-bearing Rip Hunter warning of their eventual erasure from time before passing out. Explaining that he came from a time where the Corps are no more due to the machinations of Sarko , who saw the eventual absorption of the Yellows into the Greens as an affront, Hal and the Corps were prepared for the attack of Sarko's swarm. [ 47 ] Attempting to destroy the swarm Jordan was pushed planetside, recognizing the swarm as a creation of Krona's Gauntlet. Feeling responsible, Jordan departed for Sector 563. [ 48 ] Successful Jordan destroyed Krona's Gauntlet leading to Sarko's death and later placing the gauntlet in containment.
Fracture
Main article: Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps: Fracture (Collected)
After the Fracture of the combined Green-Yellow Corps, Hal and Kyle, came across a destroyed system. Orion, the New God in search of the Corps assistance was then attacked by an omega-effect wielding Golem. Bringing the New God to a nearby system, Jordan battled the machine as Kyle faked Orion's death causing the machine to part. [ 49 ] Probing the God's mind with help of Two-Lobe back on Mogo, the Corps figured out that the Golem's under Yuga Khan 's orders were searching and destroying his heirs thus requiring their assistance. Parting to find Highfather and Lightray , Jordan's chase was joined by his late father's spirit guiding him towards the faster target. Catching up, Jordan assumed Highfather's protection. [ 50 ] Bringing Highfather to the Source Wall, Jordan joined the fight between the Corps and Khan's Golems. Succeeding the Corps and New God returned to Mogo once more gaining the respect of the New Gods.
Twilight of the Guardians
Main article: Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps: Twilight of the Guardians (Collected)
Jordan returned to Earth after hearing of Sinestro's recent return. Reporting to his old friend, Superman where the kryptonian spoke of his possession by Parallax and subsequent sealing of the entity within Sinestro's ring. Surprised to hear a voice from the weapon, Superman revealed himself to still be possessed and began battling Jordan. Coming back to his senses and seeing Clark as himself, Jordan realized the voice to be that of a distressed Hector Hammond. [ 12 ] Coming to his rescue against the Kroloteans , Jordan was momentarily placed in a mental mirage of a joyous life with Carol Ferris  before stopping the aliens. However Clark, influenced by the suicidal Hammond killed Hector if not for Jordan. Bringing Hammond to the aid, Jordan and Clark parted. Thinking of returning to Carol, Jordan was stopped by his duties parting with the stars before he could knock on her door.
During the Controller's return, Jordan, Kyle, and Gardener split off to find the lost Guardians. Intimidating information out of a bar and returning, the trio pooled their information together with Stewart present. Figuring out where the Guardians were, they all parted to Sector 3001. [ 51 ] Battling through the Controller's army the four Honor Guards attacked the Controller's directly. [ 52 ] Although pushed down by Kellic's leader of the Controllers, Jordan and Stewart were able to free the rest of the Guardians, bringing the retired ones back into the Corps. [ 53 ]
Doomsday Clock
Main article: Doomsday Clock Vol 1
After Superman is framed and rendered comatose, Hal Jordan joined the group of heroes heading towards Mars to confront their mysterious enemy. The heroes meet and engage Doctor Manhattan , but they are easily defeated. [ 54 ]
Zod's Will
Main article: Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps: Zod's Will (Collected)
Hal and Kyle were sent to deal with reports of strange mining on a pre-industrial planet in wake of the new Council of Guardians. Once planetside, the two were ambushed by the new House of Zod and Eradicator . [ 55 ] Battling Zod , Jordan was defeated and had his ring taken before being thrown in the Fortress of Zod alongside Kyle. Wishing to talk diplomacy, Zod invited Jordan to speak, but sent him back after his words. However, due to Jordan's ring being an extension of his own willpower, he was able to return the weapon to him, shutting down Eradicator in the process. Grabbing Rayner, the duo figured out he was mining rocks that could pierce constructs. With Kyle in a critical state, he gave him his ring and sent him to return to Mogo.
Energized, he warned the rest of the Corps of the situation. [ 56 ] Jordan wasn't back in captivity long before the return of Rayner and the Corps. On the verge of defeat Rayner returned the ring to Jordan with his own will added to it. Overwhelming Zod, Jordan won but not before the Guardians entered. Ultimately Jordan was forced to return to Mogo as Zod continued his work. [ 57 ]
Darkstars Rising
Main article: Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps: Darkstars Rising (Collected)
Jordan was next seen in the Sciencells with an unrepentant Tomar-Tu , admitting to the Honor Guard of feeling no guilt over his murder of Romat-Ru he disturbed Jordan with his words. In that next moment an autonomous Darkstar armor in search of a volunteer, choosing Tomar-Tu. Before he could act Jordan was knocked out before reporting the return to the Stewart. [ 58 ] With the return of the upgraded Darkstars the group began murdering any criminals found deserving while increasing their numbers, prompting the Corps to action. In route the Corps was ambushed and teleported back to Mogo, but with Jordan being brought to the Darkstars base where he debated with Tomar-Tu the ethics of what was happening only for the latter to reveal that the Darkstars had begun using the Controllers as batteries. Unable to compromise, Tomar returned Jordan to Mogo, the former announcing that the universe was under their jurisdiction now. Knowing they need aid in this one, Jordan, began searching for aid. [ 58 ] This came in the form of Hector Hammond, but before he could free him, Atomic Skull , the warden, attacked him. [ 59 ] Defeating him, Jordan and Hammond returned to space. [ 60 ] Landing in Sector 563, Hammond began testing Jordan's resolve. Overcoming the challenge the two continued on their journey back. [ 61 ]
As the Corps distracted the Darkstars on Mogo, Jordan and Hammond cut off the Controllers, effectively destroying their foundry and psychic link. Detecting this, Tomar-Tu was able to teleport back before their teleportation was disabled by Stewart and Zod. [ 62 ] Beating Tomar, Jordan overloaded their systems with his willpower, defeating the Darkstars. With Zod searching for his head, Tomar killed himself in shame of what he did. With the threat defeated, Jordan and the Honor Guard watched over the new releasing of rings, before returning back to Earth to see Carol. [ 63 ]
Intergalactic Lawman
Main article: The Green Lantern: Intergalactic Lawman (Collected)
After a sojourn on Earth, Jordan returns to a New Oa where the Guardians reveal to him that there is a traitor in their midst who reports to the returning Controllers. Jordan in turn takes on the task of weeding them out by feigning his own traitorous actions. [ 64 ] [ 65 ] To start Jordan turned his attention to the matter of recent missing planets and Evil Star report. Gaining information from petty thief Retlops, Jordan soon leaves to find an aged Evil Star, leaving for Earth he finds his homeworld missing. [ 10 ]
Attacking the Dhorians during their auction Jordan confronts the new owner who had placed the now shrunken Earth in a compliant state for him to later consume. Defeating Shepherd, killing one of the auctioneers, and earning the ire of the Guardians he joined the Darkstars through Countess Belzebeth . [ 66 ] [ 65 ] Moving to Rann and forced to “kill” Adam Strange as a show of trust, Jordan met with the Controller Mu who warned Jordan of his ultimatum knowing of his true allegiances: surrender the universe to him or a universe-wiping bomb will go off. With a returning Strange, having faked his death, and Alanna killing Mu, Jordan took back his ring and used it to send it away, disappearing in the process. [ 67 ]
Blackstars
Death Metal
Infinite Frontier
Dark Crisis
Hal rallying the troops against Pariah
After the apparent death of the Justice League, Hal, Superman , Black Adam , and the Flash came up with plans to confront the Dark Army . [ 68 ] Hal met up with Kyle Rayner and Jo Mullein in order to rally the Corps to confront the Dark Army. [ 69 ] The Green Lantern Corps arrived at Ryut in Sector 666 and Hal, Jo, and Kyle decided to go to Multiverse-2 and fight Pariah . During the fight, Hal got trapped in John Stewart's paradise world. [ 70 ] The Flash saved Hal [ 71 ] and they, along with other alleged dead heroes reunited and attacked Pariah. [ 72 ] After a gruesome battle, the heroes managed to save the day again and Hal returned to Earth. [ 73 ]
Dawn of DC
Hal battles Sinestro upon his return to Earth
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Absolute Power
Hal and The Justice League are powerless
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
All In
Hal and The Green Lantern battle Thaaros
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Loose Threads
Hal is happy that The Green Lanterns returned after Thaaros' defeat
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Red & Green
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Willpower Form Transformation : Hal's connection to the Green Light of Will is so great that he can transform into a construct, allowing him to channel greater amounts of power at the risk of dissipating into energy himself. [ 74 ] Not even Parallax (Hal Jordan) (Pre-Zero Hour) could overpower Hal. [ 75 ]
Abilities
Military Protocol : As an Air Force pilot Hal has great knowledge of military tactics that allowed him to outmaneuver and defeat even General Zod in one of their battles. [ 76 ] Aviation
Aviation
Indomitable Will Telepathic Resistance : Hal's willpower makes him able to resist Hector Hammond 's telepathy. [ 77 ]
Telepathic Resistance : Hal's willpower makes him able to resist Hector Hammond 's telepathy. [ 77 ]
Leadership
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Advanced) : Hal even managed to defeat Parallax (Hal Jordan) (Pre-Zero Hour) in a one-on-one battle. [ 78 ] Even General Zod admitted that Hal beat him in combat. [ 76 ] [ 79 ] [ 21 ] [ 80 ] [ 81 ]
Mechanical Engineering [ 6 ] [ 82 ]
Weaknesses
Speed Force : Speed Force energy can disrupt his ring functions. [ 83 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Green Lantern Power Battery
Weapons
Green Lantern Ring : Hal has a unique link to the Green Lantern Ring he forged himself, allowing him to connect to it regardless of obstacles. [ 43 ] [ 84 ] [ 85 ] Due to his connection, only he is allowed to use his ring, unless he allows someone else to use it. [ 86 ] Energy Construct Creation Force Field Energy Projection Enhanced Senses : Hal is able to sense shifts in the Emotional Electromagnetic Spectrum . [ 87 ] Flight : Hal is able to fly at high speeds through his own will. He was able to fly a plane construct so fast that he nearly entered the Speed Force . [ 88 ] Interstellar Travel Superhuman Strength
Energy Construct Creation
Force Field
Energy Projection
Enhanced Senses : Hal is able to sense shifts in the Emotional Electromagnetic Spectrum . [ 87 ]
Flight : Hal is able to fly at high speeds through his own will. He was able to fly a plane construct so fast that he nearly entered the Speed Force . [ 88 ]
Interstellar Travel
Superhuman Strength
Black Lantern Ring (Formerly)
Krona's Power Gauntlet (Formerly)
Blackstar Exo-Mantle (Formerly) [ 89 ]
Oath
"In brightest day, in blackest night, No evil shall escape my sight. Let those who worship evil's might, Beware my power...Green Lantern's light!"
Notes
Hal Jordan was created by Gil Kane and John Broome , first appearing  in Showcase #22 . However, Hal Jordan first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Flashpoint (Volume 2) #5 by Geoff Johns and Andy Kubert .
Recommended Reading
Green Lantern (Volume  5)
Justice League (Volume  2)
Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps (Volume  1)
Related
667 Appearances of Green Lantern (Hal Jordan)
588 Images featuring Green Lantern (Hal Jordan)
67 Quotations by or about Green Lantern (Hal Jordan)
Character Gallery: Green Lantern (Hal Jordan)
Footnotes
↑ The Green Lantern: Season Two #7
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #4
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #38
↑ Justice League: The Darkseid War: Green Lantern #1
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 Green Lantern (Volume 5) #20
↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 Secret Origins (Volume 3) #3
↑ Sinestro #20
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #23.4: Sinestro
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #6
↑ 10.0 10.1 The Green Lantern #2
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #7
↑ 12.0 12.1 12.2 Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #30
↑ FCBD Dark Crisis Special Edition #0
↑ 14.0 14.1 New History of the DC Universe #2
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #50
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #1
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #2
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #3
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #4
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #5
↑ 21.0 21.1 Green Lantern (Volume 5) #6
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #7
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #8
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #9
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #10
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #11
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #12
↑ Green Lantern Annual (Volume 5) #1
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #0
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #14
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #16
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #17
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #18
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #19
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #40
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #41
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #46
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps: Rebirth #1
↑ Green Lanterns: Rebirth #1
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #3
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #7
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #9
↑ 43.0 43.1 Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #10
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #12
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #15
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #16
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #19
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #20
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #27
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #28
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #34
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #35
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #36
↑ Doomsday Clock #9
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #37
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #38
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #41
↑ 58.0 58.1 Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #42
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #44
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #45
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #48
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #49
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #50
↑ The Green Lantern #1
↑ 65.0 65.1 The Green Lantern #5
↑ The Green Lantern #3
↑ The Green Lantern #6
↑ Dark Crisis #1
↑ Dark Crisis #2
↑ Dark Crisis #3
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #4
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #5
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #7 .
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #50
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #50
↑ 76.0 76.1 Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #41
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #47
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #50
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #1
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #30
↑ The Green Lantern #1
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 5) #43
↑ The Flash (Volume 5) #49
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #38
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #40
↑ The Flash Annual (Volume 4) #2
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #5
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #28
↑ The Green Lantern #5
This is an in-universe article with out-of-universe material .
Green Lantern Corps member This character is or was a member of the Green Lantern Corps , chosen by the Guardians of the Universe to act as their sector's Green Lantern and to protect it from interstellar threats with a Power Ring . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Green Lantern Corps members category."
Black Lantern Corps member This character is or was a member of the Black Lantern Corps . Those who have died may wield the Black Power Ring , symbolizing their lack of both life and emotion. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Black Lantern Corps members category."
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Sinestro Corps , chosen by Sinestro to counteract the Green Lantern Corps and spread terror throughout their sector with a Power Ring . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Sinestro Corps members category."

John Stewart(disambiguation)
Green Lantern ( 2011 - Present ) Green Lantern Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Green Lantern ( 2011 - Present )
John Stewart is the fourth Green Lantern of Earth , formerly a sniper for the U.S. Marines and an architect. In some continuities, he's the brother of Lynn Stewart . His power ring grants him the ability to make energy constructs guided by thought using his willpower . Originally given Green Lantern Corps membership after his predecessor Hal Jordan left the position, he has also shared the planet with his friends and fellow officers Guy Gardner and Kyle Rayner . Prior to her death at the hands of Star Sapphire , he was married to the alien Katma Tui . He has also been a member of the Justice League of America , the Darkstars and the Indigo Tribe .
John Stewart was created by Dennis O'Neil and Neal Adams , first appearing in Green Lantern (Volume 2) #87 ( 1971 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 1.4 Hypertime 1.5 Elseworlds 1.6 Alternate Timelines 1.7 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
1.4 Hypertime
1.5 Elseworlds
1.6 Alternate Timelines
1.7 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 DC Animated Universe 2.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse 2.3 Arrowverse 2.4 Tomorrowverse 2.5 Others
2.1 DC Animated Universe
2.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse
2.3 Arrowverse
2.4 Tomorrowverse
2.5 Others
3 Comics
4 See Also
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Teen Titans TV Multiverse
Arrowverse
Tomorrowverse
Others
Comics
See Also
Comic series featuring John Stewart
Green Lantern
John Diggle

Kyle Rayner (New Earth)
Green Lantern Mainstream Universe‎ , 1986‎ - 2011‎ Gallery Real Name Kyle Rayner Main Alias Green Lantern Other Aliases Parallax , Ion , Swarmtrooper 000830 Relatives Roderick Rayner (paternal grandfather) [ 1 ] Aaron Rayner (father) Maura Rayner (mother, deceased) Zachary Rayner (uncle, deceased), Kathleen (aunt) &#91 · citation needed &#93 · John Fox (descendant) Cary Wren (descendant) Affiliation Green Lantern Corps · Formerly New Guardians , Challengers From Beyond , Sinestro Corps , Justice League of America , Blue Lantern Corps , Titans Base Of Operations Oa · Formerly New York City · Los Angeles · JLA Watchtower Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Green Lantern , Artist Characteristics Gender Male Height 5' 11" Weight 175 lbs (79 kg) Eyes Green Hair Black Origin Universe New Earth Sector Sector 2814 Partner Guy Gardner Creators Ron Marz · Bill Willingham · Darryl Banks First Appearance Green Lantern Vol 3  #48 ( January, 1994 )
Green Lantern
Mainstream Universe‎ , 1986‎ - 2011‎
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Aaron Rayner (father) Maura Rayner (mother, deceased) Zachary Rayner (uncle, deceased), Kathleen (aunt) &#91 · citation needed &#93 · John Fox (descendant) Cary Wren (descendant)
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Sector
Partner
Creators
Kyle Rayner is a high-ranking member of the Green Lantern Corps from Earth . After the rest of the Corps was destroyed, he alone was selected to bear the last power ring and carry on the title. Although he acted alone for many years, when the Corps was reformed, his skill level gave him a position as an Honor Guard , only behind Salakk and the Guardians in the chain of command of the Corps. He has also been a host for the Ion entity, and a member of the Justice League of America .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.2 The Last Green Lantern 1.3 Zero Hour 1.4 The Final Night 1.5 Emerald Knights 1.6 Day of Judgment 1.7 Circle of Fire 1.8 Ion 1.9 Green Lantern: Rebirth 1.10 Infinite Crisis: Return of Ion 1.11 Sinestro Corps War 1.12 The War of Light 1.13 Blackest Night 1.14 Brightest Day 1.15 War of the Green Lanterns
1.1 Early Life
1.2 The Last Green Lantern
1.3 Zero Hour
1.4 The Final Night
1.5 Emerald Knights
1.6 Day of Judgment
1.7 Circle of Fire
1.8 Ion
1.9 Green Lantern: Rebirth
1.10 Infinite Crisis: Return of Ion
1.11 Sinestro Corps War
1.12 The War of Light
1.13 Blackest Night
1.14 Brightest Day
1.15 War of the Green Lanterns
2 Personality 2.1 Romances
2.1 Romances
3 Powers and Abilities 3.1 Powers 3.2 Abilities
3.1 Powers
3.2 Abilities
4 Paraphernalia 4.1 Equipment 4.2 Weapons
4.1 Equipment
4.2 Weapons
5 Oath
6 Trivia
7 Recommended Reading
8 Related 8.1 Footnotes
8.1 Footnotes
History
Early Life
Kyle Rayner becomes Green Lantern
Before he acquired a Green Lantern ring, Kyle Rayner was a struggling-but-gifted freelance graphic artist. He lived and worked in Los Angeles initially. After Hal Jordan , grief-stricken over the destruction of his hometown of Coast City , went on a mad rampage, killing the entire Green Lantern Corps and most of the Guardians of the Universe who oversaw the Corps, Rayner was found by Ganthet , the last surviving Guardian, and given the last Green Lantern ring: the powerful weapon wielded by each Green Lantern, which allows them to conjure any form of matter or energy solely with their willpower. Ganthet's reasons for choosing Kyle to bear the ring have never been made completely apparent, aside from Rayner having been in the right place at the right time. [ 2 ]
The Last Green Lantern
Kyle, unsure of what to think about having this new power, went to his ex-girlfriend's apartment, Alexandra DeWitt , showing her that he now was a Green Lantern. She decided to help him, and after his first adventure where everyone thought he was Hal Jordan, she recommended he redesign his costume to distinguish himself. [ 3 ]
The new look did not stop Mongul from trying to destroy Rayner during his first week as a Green Lantern, however, when Mongul came looking for revenge against Green Lantern for his defeat in Engine City (see " Reign of the Supermen !"). Mongul decided any Green Lantern would do. With some help from Superman , one of his heroes, Kyle defeated Mongul. It took the alien warlord by surprise that Kyle's ring could work against his yellow skin. Superman was shocked when Kyle knew virtually nothing about Hal Jordan or the Green Lantern Corps. [ 4 ]
Kyle and Alex got back together, and she helped Kyle train for his new role as a superhero. Tragically, she was brutally murdered by the supervillain Major Force , who had been sent to learn the truth about the new Green Lantern after a few shadowy government operatives recovered a fragment of the final battery. [ 5 ] Force made the mistake of showing the fragment to Kyle during the fight, which turned into a Power Battery , allowing GL to recharge his ring at a crucial moment. Kyle stopped just short of killing Major Force when the authorities arrived. Kyle was then approached by Alan Scott , the Golden Age Green Lantern, who told him a little about the history of the Green Lantern Corps. He also told him about Hal Jordan's madness and warned that they would all soon have to confront Hal. [ 6 ]
Zero Hour
Main article: Zero Hour
That day would come sooner rather than later, when Hal Jordan (now the villain Parallax ) joined with Extant and used his awesome powers to try and reshape the universe itself. After a massive battle that nearly destroyed all of space and time, Hal was defeated by a coalition of heroes. In the battle, he disappeared with Kyle. [ 7 ] Kyle and Hal ended up on Oa , where Parallax attempted to absorb even more energy from the planet itself. Kyle was forced to detonate the planet to stop Hal's madness. [ 8 ] Lost in space, Kyle learned that his power ring would only work on him after meeting Adara , a former Green Lantern who briefly stole the ring from him. [ 9 ]
Shortly after returning to Earth, Kyle got involved with the Titans to fight Psimon , becoming a member of the team after the battle. [ 10 ] While on the team, Kyle started a romantic relationship with Donna Troy , who was a Darkstar at the time. [ 11 ]
Kyle briefly joined with another former Green Lantern, Guy Gardner , for a second shot at Major Force . This time, Kyle actively chose not to kill the villain, but Guy had no such hesitation (although Major Force turned up alive and well later). [ 12 ]
Parallax soon returned to Earth, demanding the last power ring, but Kyle proved during that battle that he was more than worthy to bear the name Green Lantern, causing Parallax to exile himself away from Earth. [ 13 ]
During a battle against Sonar , Kyle would meet The Flash (Wally West) . Wally, having grown up with Hal and his uncle Barry Allen as Green Lantern and Flash, did not think very highly of the new GL at first. Their bickering almost allowed Sonar to overcome them. They managed to overcome their differences, however, and would go on to become good friends, continuing the legacy of the Green Lantern and Flash duo. [ 14 ] They also teamed up with their predecessors, Alan Scott and Jay Garrick against alien invaders, a meeting that made them realize they could become friends despite their continuous bickering, just like Alan and Jay. [ 15 ]
Kyle and Donna eventually had a brief breakup, as she was still in the aftermath of her divorce at the time, and they went their separate ways. [ 16 ] Following their breakup, Kyle began to question his abilities and what it truly meant to be a superhero. This lead him to seek out other heroes for advice, including Batman , Sentinel , Captain Marvel and Wonder Woman . Kyle learned a lot from them, and rededicated himself to his new role. [ 17 ]
Kyle barely was able to rest after this "hero quest" when Donna Troy returned to Earth and asked him to come with her to Rann , where John Stewart and what was left of the Darkstars were rallied, preparing for an invasion by Grayven , the son of Darkseid . GL managed to hold the line, defeating Grayven in single combat, although John Stewart was gravely injured in the battle (and left paralyzed from it). Kyle took Donna and Stewart (both stepping out of the Darkstars) back to Earth, where John received medical attention. [ 18 ] After a date where they decided to resume their relationship, Kyle gifted Donna a jewel made of green energy, which would be solid as long as he loved her. [ 19 ]
Once returned to Earth, GL met the new Green Arrow (Connor Hawke) and the two easily became friends (as they were both in the same situation, two young men recently thrust into the life of a superhero and trying to fill the shoes of someone with a long, proud history). [ 20 ] [ 21 ]
The Final Night
Main article: The Final Night
Soon after, Earth's greatest heroes were unable to stop the Sun-Eater from enveloping the Sun. In desperation, Kyle sought out Parallax and found him at the Source Wall . Kyle pleaded with Hal to return and save the Earth. Parallax did come back, and after seeing the immense danger Earth was in, decided to try and redeem himself. Hal was successful at destroying the Sun-Eater and restoring the Earth to the way it was--but the cost was his own life. [ 22 ] [ 23 ] A memorial was held in Coast City for the former hero. [ 24 ]
Shortly after, Kyle became one of the charter members of the new Justice League of America after the team saved Earth from a renegade band of White Martians . The new Justice League established their new base, the Watchtower , on the surface of the moon. [ 25 ]
Kyle again had to contend with a former villain of the Green Lanterns coming to Earth for revenge. This time, it was a woman named Fatality , an alien whose home of Xanshi had been destroyed partially because of the actions of John Stewart . Fatality did not know who was responsible for the destruction of her world, only knowing that a Green Lantern was, and so she blamed all Green Lanterns and began to hunt them down all over the universe. Even after the Corps was destroyed, she continued her vendetta against its former members. Learning the last GL was on Earth, she arrived and battled Kyle across not only New York City, but also on an alien planet. Kyle managed to defeat her--but in the process she learned that John Stewart was the one she was seeking the most. [ 26 ]
Back at his apartment, Kyle found a green skinned woman in his shower -- it was Jade , who asked if she could crash at his place for a while. Kyle agreed--much to the chagrin of his still-girlfriend Donna Troy (as well as Jade's brother Obsidian ). [ 27 ] Kyle took Donna to meet his mother in L.A., having fallen very much in love with her, but when Donna's ex-husband and son were killed in a car accident, she broke up with Kyle, explaining that she just needed some time apart to sort things through. Kyle took the breakup very hard. [ 28 ]
Emerald Knights
Just as Kyle was getting settled into his role, Hal Jordan would return--although this time, it was not Parallax, but rather Hal Jordan from approximately ten years before, plucked out of his own time and accidentally brought to the present with Kyle. The Justice League was happy to have the old Hal back, causing some resentment in Kyle as he felt he was being replaced. However, an "old version" of Parallax would show up, traveling through time from before a cosmic crisis , and after a battle between the two Hals, both of them were returned to their proper times. Before he left, however, Green Lantern Hal gave a copy of his power ring to Kyle, since his had the ability to duplicate itself, while Kyle's did not. At this time, Kyle and Jade also became romantically involved. [ 29 ]
With Hal's ring, Kyle decided the time had come to try rebuilding the Green Lantern Corps. After Alan Scott , Guy Gardner , and John Stewart all turned down the offer for a new GL ring, Kyle gave one to Jade (who had recently lost her powers) and left her in charge while he decided to go into space and find some new recruits. [ 30 ] Jade assumed the Green Lantern name and classic costume during her tour of duty. Fatality soon returned to Earth, however, continuing her vendetta against the Green Lanterns. Kyle returned to Earth during the battle, and once again the fight started on Earth and ended on a distant world, but with some help from John Stewart, Fatality was defeated once again. [ 31 ] Kyle's efforts in space to restart the Corps were not successful. [ 32 ]
Day of Judgment
Main article: Day of Judgment
Kyle would get some more heartache when he finally bumped into Donna Troy again. Donna explained that her existence then was possible solely because of Wally West's memories of her, causing her to doubt herself and her own feelings and explaining that they could probably never be together again. Jade, angry over feeling like she was nothing more than Kyle's silver medal, dumped him. All this happened while Kyle had to literally go to Hell and back-- and in the aftermath, Hal Jordan would emerge as the new Spectre . [ 33 ] [ 34 ]
Shortly after the breakup, Kyle came under the influence of the Controllers , an alien race who had created Effigy , who attempted to take control of Green Lantern by creating a myriad of different hallucinations. Through sheer force of will, Kyle was able to defeat them and return home. [ 35 ]
Kyle finally got a steady job doing a bi-weekly comic strip for a magazine called Feast . The job came with an assistant, a 16 year-old boy named Terry Berg . Kyle barely finished the first assignment when he was attacked at his home by a rogue group of Manhunters . [ 36 ] This particular batch of Manhunters had become self aware, formed a collective consciousness and came after Kyle for his power ring. They intended to "assimilate" Kyle and have him use his ring as a power source in their quest to further evolve. They nearly succeeded, but Kyle managed to free himself and destroy them. [ 37 ]
Kyle's new career began to take off, but even as it did so, Fatality returned again--this time equipped with a Yellow Lantern Ring. After a fierce battle with Kyle, she went after John Stewart and Merayn . Kyle managed to stop her, but after she tried to surrender the power ring, it exploded, taking her arm with it. The Qwardians who had given her the ring decided to give it to Alex Nero instead. Kyle finally brought Fatality to justice. [ 38 ] Fortunately, in the aftermath of the fight, Kyle and Jade managed to have a heart to heart conversation, and over the next few weeks they got back together. Nero then showed up in New York City with his ring. Utterly insane, he created legions of yellow "demons" that plagued the city (although they were more of a disruption than a threat) and Kyle had to call in the JLA for help. A massive battle ensued across Manhattan. In the end, haunted by the ghosts of his past, Nero apparently self destructed. Green Lantern was hailed as the hero of the hour by the mayor of New York. [ 39 ]
On top of the world, Kyle proposed to Jade (with a GL power ring no less). Worried that he was rushing into things, she turned him down, wanting to take time to work on their relationship. Terry was visibly upset about the news, leading Kyle for finally figure out that his assistant was gay and harboring a crush on him. Realizing how troubled the kid was with his own feelings, Kyle had a long talk with him and they became close friends. [ 40 ]
Jade may have turned down the ring as an engagement one, but she did accept it to become a hero again. She also went with Kyle when he was requested for services as a goodwill ambassador to an alien planet. Things went bad while he was there, however, and a mission of peace quickly turned into a firefight. [ 41 ]
Circle of Fire
Main article: Green Lantern: Circle of Fire
Over that time, it was discovered that a cosmic entity named Oblivion was the embodiment of Kyle's fear, unknowingly created after Alexandra's murder. It was not until later did Oblivion come to "merge" with Kyle. The JLA tried to stop Oblivion, but during the battle, Kyle was sent back to Earth to get reinforcements.
When he reached Earth, Kyle recruited Power Girl , The Atom , Firestorm , Adam Strange and the Circle of Fire — ostensibly a group of Green Lanterns from alternate realities and different time periods. In reality, Kyle created all of these Green Lanterns. The Circle of Fire consisted of Kyle's late girlfriend Alex, a pair of juvenile cousins (Hunter and Forest Rayner), a descendant of Wally West and Kyle Rayner who possessed both the Flash and Green Lantern's powers but could only use one of those powers a day (Green Lightning), a reprogrammed Manhunter robot (G.L.7177.6), and a Green Lantern from the Middle Ages (Emerald Knight).
This group was split up to handle different crises caused by Oblivion, or in some cases to search for a way to defeat him. Eventually they all realized that Kyle had created the Circle of Fire because he needed help. When they realized this, they decided that the created Green Lanterns should return to Kyle's mind. Doing so allowed Kyle to unlock more power from the ring that he had not used before. In a confrontation with Kyle, Oblivion revealed that he was a distillation of Kyle's doubts and darker impulses, made manifest through the power of the ring. After facing up to this, Kyle was able to defeat Oblivion and restore the JLA.
Ion
Kyle Rayner as Ion.
For a brief period Kyle achieved godhood as Ion, when he absorbed the leftover energy in the sun after Hal Jordan sacrificed his life, energy which had merged and grown with energies released after Oblivion's defeat. With his new powers, Kyle could bend time, space, and reality. Kyle could even be in many places at once. Kyle's trans-godlike powers had drawbacks however: Ion was one with everything, but Kyle Rayner could no longer sleep or separate himself from the overwhelming responsibilities. Kyle was now in the exact same position that Hal Jordan had been in when he had become Parallax.
Rather than sacrifice his humanity, Kyle abandoned omnipotence, bleeding off the vast power, recharging the Central Power Battery on the planet Oa (the headquarters of the Guardians), and helping to create a new group of Guardians in the process. Before he purged all of the power though, he modified his ring. Once again limited only by his willpower and imagination, Rayner's ring can still affect yellow, does not have a set time limit on its power, and is keyed directly to him. Kyle modified the ring so that it would always return to him, and so that it would always have a lifeline of power available (although the ring still required charging to get up to full power). [ 42 ]
After the brutal beating of his young assistant and friend Terry Berg , Kyle went on a lengthy self-imposed exile into space.  Before leaving, he placed John Stewart , recently fully healed from his paraplegia and given a new power ring, into his spot in the JLA.  Upon returning to Earth, he discovered that Jade had begun seeing someone new, and was doing so in his own apartment. He left New York and spent some time trying once again to find his place on Earth, and ended up staying with his mother for a brief time.
Green Lantern: Rebirth
Main article: Green Lantern: Rebirth
After being tricked into believing his mother had been murdered by Major Force , Kyle fought with the villain. Knowing Major Force was essentially immortal, Kyle decapitated him and sent his head off into outer space. Feeling that he was a danger to those he cared for, Rayner once again left for the far reaches of space. Soon after, the Guardians of the Universe sent Kyle on a special mission to retrieve the corpse of Hal Jordan and he developed insight into the true nature of the Parallax entity. Following which, he ceased to operate solely on Earth. He was given his first official Green Lantern Corps assignment from Kilowog , and met with the Guardians, along with Guy Gardner , about his role in the Corps. There, he was given special status amongst the Guardians, who consider him the "Torchbearer," the Green Lantern who carried the legacy through the Corps' darkest period.
Infinite Crisis: Return of Ion
Main article: Infinite Crisis
Jade died during a mission in the Rann-Thanagar War . Her power (the inherited Starheart-come-Green Lantern power) was transferred to Kyle Rayner, vastly increasing his power, and instigated Kyle's second metamorphosis into Ion.
One year after Jade's death, Green Lantern Torquemada and his rookie partner, Garmin Vid , are investigating Sector 3521 and discover Kyle amidst the wreckage of an evacuation fleet from the Quinilon System. An incoherent Kyle blames himself for the fleet's destruction, but repeatedly admits that he did not mean for it to happen. The two fellow Lanterns attempt to aid Kyle and bring him back to Oa, but Kyle violently lashes out, nearly killing Garmin Vid before fleeing the scene.
Torquemada returns to Oa with his wounded ally and informs Kilowog that "something is terribly wrong". Meanwhile, Kyle awakens on Earth in Kaaterskill's Notch , a secluded village refuge for artists. Kyle has no memory of the incident with Torquemada or Vid, nor does he remember the destruction of the evacuation fleet. While staying at Kaaterskill's Notch, Kyle is greeted by his landlord, an old man named Schuyler, and attempts to introduce himself to the newest tenant, a reclusive mute girl name Marissa Rochelle.
Later, Kyle is attacked by a Thanagarian bounty hunter named Tarra Karn and is forced to defend himself. Kyle eventually forces her to reveal why she has chosen him as her prey and Kyle learns of the evacuation fleet's destruction and his apparent role in it.
On Oa, the Guardians have forbidden Kilowog and the other Lanterns from aiding Kyle, apparently wanting him to fight whatever it is that has possessed him. Indeed, it seems that something or someone is manipulating Kyle, causing memory lapses, bouts of violent anger and a lack of control over his actions and powers.
After visiting the wreckage of the evacuation fleet, Kyle loses control again and ends up on a world called Alytt where he impacts with a gladiator arena, unintentionally rescuing a warrior woman from a ferocious alien opponent via collateral damage. There, he freaks out again, nearly breaking her arm before flying off again and then finding himself in orbit over Mogo , the sentient Green Lantern planet.
Kyle Rayner becoming Ion once again.
Confronted by his own delusions and inner demons, in the form of his former girlfriends Alex, Donna and Jade giving aid and suggestions, and Major Force as the embodiment of all his fears, Kyle ultimately realized the meaning of his "new life". He acknowledges, thanks to "Jade," that the Ion entity is a living conduit able to channel and harness both the Starheart and the Central Power Battery willpower energy. In space, Ariana, the mysterious alien girl, still angered for the massive devastation Rayner laid on her planet is encountered by Hal Jordan, who was sent to check on Kyle by Kilowog . The Guardians forbid anyone to leave Oa to help, but did not say anything about off-worlders going after him. It helps that Hal Jordan has gone through changes in his past, and would be the best to help.
Upon finding Ion decimating yet another world, Hal chooses to step in and speak with Kyle.  The conversation is short lived and Ion lashes out at Hal Jordan. The battle continues on until Hal defeats Kyle. However, upon requesting his ring to scan for any mental abnormalities that might explain Kyle's erratic behavior, the ring instead reveals the rampaging Ion to in fact be Alex Nero . Meanwhile, on Mogo, Kyle exits a green cocoon and heads out into space. Kyle catches up with Jordan, and Nero claims that his connection with Kyle and new powers are the result of a third party's interference.
With Nero in tow, Kyle confronts the Guardians and asks what they knew about his becoming Ion, why Nero was wreaking havoc as Ion, and why they ordered the Green Lantern Corps to not assist him. The Guardians claim they ordered the other Green Lanterns not to help because he needed to pass one final test for them to be sure he can handle his power. They explain that they had planned for Kyle to hold an honored position among Green Lanterns, but that he now possesses the power to revive the Green Lantern Corps, should it ever be destroyed again. The Guardians tell Kyle that he will no longer be required to patrol, but will be called in during situations that the Corps cannot handle by themselves. The Guardians admit that they only know that some unforeseen enemy has set Nero on a path of destruction to Oa. Nero unleashes a massive amount of energy, but Kyle dissipates the energy into what is presumed to be a "pocket universe".
Back on Earth, Kyle is met by a mysterious Monitor , who tells him that he is supposed to be dead. Kyle discovers that other enemies, like his old nemesis Effigy , are being put on his tracks. The captured Effigy could only say that Kyle's location was given to him in a subliminal way, and, as the Guardians discover while interrogating Nero, the knowledge of the enemy himself was expunged from his minions' mind.
Kyle returns to the planet scorched by Nero while using his name, and clears his reputation. Later Guy Gardner meets him to tell "bad news" about his mother who was in a hospital dying with no known medical cause. After comforting her, Kyle is once again contacted by a Guardian who tells him he must return to Oa at once. Before leaving Earth, he is assaulted by two superpowered individuals, a male and female who claim to be the Atom and the Flash respectively (both are characters from DC's Tangent Comics event). After a brief fight, "Atom" gains the upper hand and knocks Kyle out. They then place the Lantern previously seen at the end of Infinite Crisis on his chest. After a brief flash, the Tangent Universe's Green Lantern appears, holding the Lantern.
Kyle awakens in " the Bleed ," encountering the two children that found the Tangent Comics' lantern, as well as aiding Captain Atom , who is still sporting the Monarch armor, in a battle against Daemonites . Kyle enlists Captain Atom's help in escaping the Bleed, re-absorbs the Tangent Comics' superheroes back into the lantern, and returns to the Guardians of the Universe, who send him on a mission to Sector 3888 .
At a satellite base inside of an asteroid in sector 3888, Kyle discovers a number of dead Qwardian Weaponers , as well as Donna Troy . Able to find Grayven, and battle him, but unable to make him confess anything on the mysterious conspiration, he was again faced by one of the Monitors, and once again spared, his future to be reconsidered again.
Returned home, he tries to reanimate his mother's dead corpse using his Ion powers, but after a tearful farewell she refuses, asking Kyle to let her pass. He agrees, and he is left again in mourning in his new home, unable to sort out both his life, both the mysteries surrounding his recent misfortunes and encounters, seemingly tied together.
Sinestro Corps War
The new Parallax
Main article: Sinestro Corps War
Kyle discovered a Yellow Lantern Ring flying through space. He brought it to Oa to show to the Guardians, but before he was able to see them, the ring transported him to the Anti-Matter Universe world of Qward . Here, he found Sinestro speaking before throngs of members of the newly-formed Sinestro Corps . Overpowered by their numbers, Kyle was captured. Sinestro ripped the Ion entity from his chest and announced the true reason for his mother's death - the virus and Sinestro Corps member Despotellis . In that moment of fear, Sinestro unleashed the Parallax entity on Kyle, transforming him into a new Parallax and herald of the Anti-Monitor . [ 43 ]
Trapped within his own mind, Kyle tried to break free, but when Parallax absorbed Hal Jordan into him, he helped Kyle expel Parallax from him. Ganthet and another female Guardian, Sayd , imprisoned Parallax in the Earth Lanterns' power batteries, and Ganthet gave Kyle a new power ring. Kyle helped Hal defend Coast City from Sinestro, engaging in a fist fight which ended when Hal finally defeated Sinestro.
On Oa, Kyle confronted the Guardians over their deceptions regarding Ion, and their perceived abandonment of him on Qward. The Guardians explained that Kyle was a temporary host for Ion, made possible by Jade's death during the Infinite Crisis, which was unexpected. They also explained that they knew Hal and the other Earthmen would rescue Kyle, and offered to let him keep the ring Ganthet gave him. Kyle had a talk with Sodam Yat , the new host of Ion. During their discussion, they were attacked by Nero, but Sodam was able to take control of Nero's constructs (something Kyle, while as Ion, never thought he could do) and defeat him. Meeting up with Hal, Guy and John, Kyle revealed that he was now a member of the Green Lantern Honor Guard. Soon afterwards, Kyle moved to Oa.
The War of Light
Main article: War of Light
As part of his duties with the Honor Guard, Kyle began working with other members of the Corps, including Guy and Soranik Natu , growing closer to her. He joined the hunt for the Quintet , a family of Sinestro Corps siblings who were murdering the families of rookie Green Lanterns. Following this, Kyle and Soranik joined KT21 and the Pree couple to locate Kryb , a Sinestro Corps member who was murdering Green Lanterns and stealing their children.
In Sector 1111 , they met up with Kryb, but damaged the Sector House. As he saw one of the murdered Lantern's bodies burn up on reentry, Kyle snapped and launched a violent physical assault on Kryb. The other Lanterns attempt to restrain him allowed Kryb the chance to expose them to a chemical agent she secreted that took control of their minds, causing Kyle, Soranik, KT21 and Matoo Pree to attack Amnee Pree and force her to go into labor. Kyle was able to overcome the agent's effects and free the others. He and KT21 attacked Kryb while Soranik and Matoo helped Amnee give birth. The Lanterns were assisted by Miri Riam , the newest member of the Star Sapphire Corps . Although KT21 was killed when she tried to kill Kryb, the monster herself was defeated, and Amnee gave birth. At the same time, the Lanterns were informed that romantic relationships were forbidden between Green Lanterns from this point on. Miri announced that she was taking Kryb to Zamaron to rehabilitate her, and Kyle dismissed her plan, admitting that he had lost too many to give love another chance. Miri then had her look into her crystal to see his true love, and what he saw was Soranik. Kyle left the choice with the Prees, who had decided to resign following the new rule's implementation and chose to give Miri's plan a chance.
Love conquers all?
Returning to Oa, Kyle and Guy discussed the Guardians' recent law, which Kyle felt was like they were trying to micromanage their souls. Soranik then stopped by and asked to talk with Kyle alone. Heading to Guy's Place, the two discussed what they saw within the crystal, and shared a passionate embrace. Soranik then noticed the drawing Kyle was working, a rendition of KT21's death. Kyle showed her his scrapbook, revealing that he was drawing the deaths of recent Lanterns as a way of mourning them. Soranik felt that he needed to celebrate their lives, and convinced him to make a mural of the history of the Green Lantern Corps. In Kyle's apartment, he and Soranik share a kiss. Kyle tells her about the progress he has made on the mural. Soranik encourages Kyle's work. They discuss their newfound relationship and how it goes against the third law. Kyle reassures her that if what they felt for each other put the Corps at risk, he would gladly give up his ring. Soranik left to tell her people about Sinestro's recent escape.
Kyle is one of the Green Lanterns on Oa when Scar releases the prisoners in the Sciencells. Kyle along with Guy, Kilowog and Salaak, lead the Green Lanterns to battle the escaped prisoners. During the riot, Kyle rescues Kanjar Ro and enlists his help in recapturing the other prisoners by offering to talk to the Guardians about reducing his sentence. As the Green Lanterns capture the escaped criminals, Oa's protective shell is destroyed by Scar. Kyle and Guy strongly oppose the Guardians' authorization of allowing the Alpha Lanterns to execute all the prisoners with no trial. Because of this insubordination, the Guardians suspend Kyle and Guy and order them back to Earth, but decide to honor their promise of leniency and spare Kanjar and Bolphunga.
Blackest Night
Main article: Blackest Night
Kyle attends a parade in Coast City with Hal, John, and Guy to honor the citizens who died in Mongul's attack. After the parade, Kyle goes to Valhalla Cemetery with Alan Scott to visit Jade's grave. He and Guy Gardner return to Oa, where Kyle confides in Guy that when he looked in Miri Riam's sapphire, he had not seen Soranik, but Jade, and was feeling guilty for lying to Soranik. The two then meet up with Soranik and Princess Iolande, who have been out of touch since the Sciencell riot.
Temporary sacrifice
As they approach the planet, black rings descend upon Oa where they travel to the crypt of fallen Green Lanterns, transforming them into undead Black Lanterns, and Kyle finds himself face to face with Jade, now a Black Lantern.
Jade tries to seduce Kyle, claiming that his love for her is what brought her back, but Kyle quickly realizes that the Jade before him is only a soulless corpse - not the Jade he once loved. Enraged, he attacks her for disgracing Jade's memory, only to see her recover and attack him with black constructs resembling those that he failed to save, in an attempt to further stoke the emotional fire that is already sweeping through him.
Eventually, the conflict on Oa came to a climax and the Black Lanterns gathered around the Central Power Battery to summon Nekron and destroy the willpower at its source. Knowing that somebody had to stop them, Kyle grabbed a Alpha Lantern Power Battery and plunged himself with it directly into the core, detonating it and triggering a massive explosion destroying all of the Black Lanterns in its wake. Although his ploy was successful, the sacrifice cost him his life. He did not hesitate for a second, except to tell Soranik that he loved her and Guy that he had been a brother to him. [ 44 ] Enraged at the death of his partner, Guy succumbs to his emotions and becomes a member of the Red Lantern Corps , unable to control himself. However, as Soranik rushes to Kyle's side, the power of their love draws Sapphire Miri Riam to the spot, and she uses her powers to help revive him.
Resurrected, Kyle is re-inducted into the Corps and ready to get back to the fight. [ 45 ] However, when confronting Guy, the Red Lantern Ring's influence has becomes so overwhelming, that he even attacks Kyle and eventually the rest of the Green Lantern Corps after Mogo destroys every Black Lantern in Oa's vicinity. After the Green Lantern Corps, Indigo Tribe, and Star Sapphires subdue and free Guy from the red ring, they all receive a message from leaders of each respective Corps instructing them head to Earth to stop Nekron, the lord of the Black Lantern Corps, and his growing undead army.
All seven corps travel to Earth to battle Nekron's Black Lantern Corps. He remarks that the Guardians would probably leave out the Corps' Alliance from the Book of Oa. Kyle was then confronted by Alex, who had also transformed into a Black Lantern. Alex tries to convince Kyle to kill himself, but by realizing that she was not the true Alex, Kyle was able to defeat her. With the Indigo Lantern Munk's help, Kyle was able to finally lay Alex to rest. He then helped battle the Anti-Monitor alongside the other Lanterns trying to destroy him and the Black Lantern Central Battery. While they are successful in knocking out the Anti-Monitor, he was still trapped inside the Battery itself.
He helped the battle against Nekron along with the other members of the seven corps. He believed they can defeat Nekron by working together, something that Guy is doubtful they can do. After Nekron is defeated, the Entity resurrects many dead heroes and villains, Jade being among them. Much to his surprise, Jade kisses him in front of Soranik.
Brightest Day
Main article: Brightest Day
Some time later, Kyle encourages Jade to stop dwelling on the past and to live again. He and Soranik leave Jade to dwell on his words and fly back to Oa. On Oa, Kyle helps his fellow Lanterns rebuild after the Black Lanterns' rampage. He and Guy discuss the series of events following the Sinestro Corps War up to the latest crisis, while on their way to the memorial for fallen Lanterns being held on Mogo. He, along with Guy and Arisia, force their way to the Guardians' Citadel after the Guardians canceled the group's scheduled meetings. They berate the Guardians on their lack of emotions and trust in the Green Lantern Corps. Kyle voices his disapproval of the Third Law, citing that many experienced Lanterns resigned because of it. He warns the Guardians that they (the GLs) will not go back to the way things were before, and tells them that they will have to earn the Corps' trust again.
Green Lantern Vs Alpha Lantern
He and Ganthet visit John, who is helping to rebuild Oa. During his conversation with John, it is revealed that Kyle's apartment was destroyed. John questions Kyle on where he is staying as he has not seen him in the barracks. Kyle tells him that he is staying with Soranik until he can find a new place. John tells him not to rush things, to which Kyle responds that Soranik is different from his previous girlfriends and that "no one rushes that girl into anything." [ 46 ] Later that night Kyle had a dream about Jade and wake up screaming her name next to Soranik, Kyle tries to explain but the more he explained the worse it sounds, but they are interrupted by Ganthet , who says the all the Alpha Lanterns had departed Oa, Kyle remembered that John is on a mission with Boodikka , so they go to Grenda . In Grenda they see Horoq Nnot is now an Alpha Lantern. [ 47 ] she starts draining their power, so they flee, and realize the Alpha Lanterns is compromised, Ganthet makes a distraction leaving Kyle a chance to rescue John, but having to leave Ganthet behind to deal with Cyborg Superman , Soranik was being attacked by Varix , to saved her, Kyle cuts both of Varix's hands off, and said if he had to kill him to save her he would. So Kyle, John and Soranik take refuge in the cave, they see the guardians in the cave, [ 48 ] and encourages them to fight against the Cyborg Superman, in the mean time they called Hannu , but their message is detected by the Alphas, Boodikka goes to investigate and draws out all of Kyle's power, but Hannu shows up and breaks her free from Henshaw's control, to prove to them that she is on their side she let them recharge their rings. [ 49 ] Kyle's idea was attacking like a tidal wave using the guardians to make Henshaw lose his control over the machines, John and Kyle faced Henshaw while Soranik rescued Ganthet and Stel, with the help of the other Lanterns Kyle and John destroys Henshaw's body, but he was really stopped by Boodikka's willpower. [ 50 ]
Kyle was covering Soranik's sector, when he was attacked by a Weaponer of Qward ,who called himself The Weaponer , he defeated Kyle easily and kidnapped Soranik, and told him if he wanted to see her again he would have to bring Sinestro to Qward . Kyle then flies to earth to tries to convince him , [ 51 ] but Sinestro refuses to help and starts a fist fight with Kyle. Kyle goes to Oa and asks for the Green Lantern Honor Guard to help him rescue Soranik. [ 52 ] In Qward The Weaponer defeats the Honor Guard, Kyle rescues Soranik and together they go to help their teammates, the whole Sinestro Corps arrives except for Sinestro. [ 53 ] Kyle stayed between the fire of the Sinestro Corps and the Thunderers of Qward , he tells them that if they do not use the rings the truce will not shatter. [ 54 ] During this Firestorm shows up asking if Kyle had seen a black lantern version of him, Kyle said he had not and Firestorm stays to fight alongside the Lanterns. [ 55 ]
War of the Green Lanterns
Main article: War of the Green Lanterns
Blue Lantern
When Kyle and the Honor Guard come back to Oa, they see all the Alpha Lanterns offline. The Power Ring tells them that the impurity is back. Kyle, Ganthet and John do not suffer the effects but the rest of the Corps do, as Ganthet states that Parallax is back in the Central Battery. All the others Lantern start to regroup in there, and Kyle worried about Soranik loses control to Parallax and starts a fight with John, Ganthet manages to break them free from their corrupted rings, and tells Kyle that he was not given the last ring at random, and says that he was his best hope then and he is now. [ 56 ]
John and Kyle later encounter Hal and Guy, and Hal says that when the Book of the Black absorbed the New Guardians , [ 57 ] the book left the rings. So the four get to choose one the rings. Guy chose the Red Lantern Ring , Hal the Yellow Lantern Ring and he gives John the Indigo Lantern Ring , and Kyle chose the Blue Lantern Ring . [ 58 ]
John and Kyle were training with their new rings, but they both were struggling with their rings. The two were suddenly attacked by the Green Lantern Corps, and unwittingly Kyle's blue ring starts to supercharge the Green Lanterns. Kyle and the others fly to find Ganthet fighting the Corps. Ganthet is disappointed to see them using other rings, when they are attacked again. Ganthet tells Kyle to focus on their minds instead of their rings, when he starts thinking he got them Mogo shows up and blasts them. [ 59 ]
When Kyle and the others runaway from the Corps, they go underground and Hal tells that they have to take Parallax off the Central Battery, but John replies that Mogo is more dangerous and he has have to be dealt first. Guy, John and Hal start argue, but Kyle says to put on a vote, so they go to Central Battery combining their rings to dig up to the Battery, they reach the center of Oa and find where the Guardians hide their darkest secret. They see Krona's gauntlet and Guy takes it, but a very old Green Lantern appears and fights them. Kyle stops the fight and says that they are all green lanterns causing the Green Lantern to leave after he see that they are indeed allies, but the computer shows that Mogo is creating several rings and sending them to the sectors. Kyle and John decide to deal with Mogo, before Krona can create an infinite army of Green Lanterns. John uses his ring to teleport him and Kyle to Mogo. [ 60 ]
Getting there, John and Kyle try to contain the rings but without success they try to reach Mogo's mind, and John sees that Mogo cannot help himself. John taps into the Black Lantern energy that remains of the last purge of Oa [ 61 ] and uses it to kill Mogo, before Kyle's eyes. [ 62 ] In the fallout, the two regroup with Hal, Guy and Ganthet, using the full power of the emotional spectrum to crack open the Battery and release Parallax. Their job done, the Lanterns regain their original green rings, in preparation for the final confrontation with Krona. [ 63 ] Hal during the fight ask Kyle to rescue the New Guardians drawing the pages of Book of the Black , which set them free. [ 64 ]
After Krona's defeat Kyle tries to reconcile with John Stewart unsuccessfully. Still during the aftermath Kyle stops Soranik Natu and other Green Lanterns from trying to breaking in into the Oan Citadel to kill Sinestro now wearing a green ring. The Guardians thank Kyle, but said that will be best if he go home after his disagreement with Stewart and his break up with Natu. Before he went, Rayner and the Green Lantern Honor Guard toss Mogo's remains into the Oan Sun making the sun showing a green lantern symbol. [ 65 ]
Personality
Romances
Alexandra DeWitt : Kyle's first love. Before becoming Green Lantern, Kyle had a breakup with Alex, but they reunited when he earned the ring. The new status quo led them to become a team: he did superhero stuff while she took photos of him. Unfortunately, when things started to go well between them, Major Force killed Alex in an attempt to get to Kyle. [ 5 ]
Donna Troy : Kyle always had a crush on Wonder Girl ever since he was a kid. They finally met when he helped the Titans fight Psimon (Donna was a Darkstar at the time, so he didn't recognize her as Wonder Girl at first). [ 66 ] Kyle joined the Titans, and he developed a close friendship which soon evolved into a romantic relationship with Donna. [ 11 ] Eventually, Donna's son Robert and her ex-husband Terry died in a car accident, which devastated her. Not knowing how to cope with her feelings, Donna broke up with Kyle. [ 67 ]
Jade
Soranik Natu
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Reality Alteration : While bonded with Ion , Kyle was able to alter reality.
Abilities
Indomitable Will : Like many Green Lanterns, he possesses an incredibly strong will. He has been able to resist Queen Bee's hypnotic pollen (through some coaxing from Huntress) which no one has been able to resist in the past. In addition, Mageddon (Weapon of the old Gods) tried to disable his ring but the Ultimate Warbringer was no match for Kyle's will.
Green Lantern Ring Mastery : Kyle's constructs are amongst the most powerful. Kyle's constructs are much more elaborate than those of any other green lanterns, often fading into view like a sketch refined into an illustration.
Artistry : Kyle is a skilled and creative artist. He has been an artist since he was born and has an equally long history of creativity. He has drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, inked, colored, designed, and created thousands of works of art with or without his Rings.
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Advanced) : Kyle has been shown to hold his own even without his ring. [ 68 ] [ 69 ] [ 70 ] He was trained by Martian Manhunter. [ 71 ] Kyle's time being a part of the Justice League of America has taught him how to fight, since he first began with the League. [ 72 ] Weaponry [ 73 ] Swordsmanship : Kyle managed to defeat a Samurai, during his test made by Z . [ 74 ] [ 75 ]
Weaponry [ 73 ]
Swordsmanship : Kyle managed to defeat a Samurai, during his test made by Z . [ 74 ] [ 75 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Green Lantern Power Battery
Weapons
Green Lantern Ring Energy Construct Creation Force Field Energy Projection Flight
Energy Construct Creation Force Field
Force Field
Energy Projection
Flight
Oath
"In brightest day, in blackest night, No evil shall escape my sight. Let those who worship evil's might, Beware my power...Green Lantern's light!"
Trivia
If the Multiverse had continued to exist after the Crisis on Infinite Earths , Rayner would have been a native of Earth-Eight . [ 76 ]
Kyle Rayner has changed his costume almost a dozen of times not due to a time change or outside forces but instead due to his artistic nature. He has designed and redesigned his costume for various aliases as well as helped others design their costumes.
Kyle Rayner was often called the Torch Bearer by Ganthet and other members of the Green Lantern Corps.
As Ion , he had the sum total of all the energies contained by the Guardians of the Universe, the Central Power Battery, and the Starheart .
As Parallax , he had the powers of the Sinestro Corps as well as the enhanced abilities possessed by the being itself.
When Kyle was a kid, he watched Jaws and was so scared that he had nightmares for weeks. That fear lingered enough in Kyle's mind that when he faced off against Aquaman and was bitten by a shark, Kyle panicked for a moment before conquering his fear. [ 77 ]
Recommended Reading
Green Lantern Recommended Reading Green Lantern (Volume  1) Green Lantern (Volume  2) Green Lantern (Volume  3) Green Lantern (Volume  4) Green Lantern (Volume  5) Green Lantern (Volume  6) Green Lantern (Volume  7) The Green Lantern (Volume  1) The Green Lantern: Season Two (Volume  1) Green Lantern Corps (Volume  1) Green Lantern Corps (Volume  2) Green Lantern Corps (Volume  3) Green Lantern: Emerald Warriors (Volume  1) Green Lantern: New Guardians (Volume  1) Green Lanterns (Volume  1) Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps (Volume  1)
Green Lantern (Volume  1)
Green Lantern (Volume  2)
Green Lantern (Volume  3)
Green Lantern (Volume  4)
Green Lantern (Volume  5)
Green Lantern (Volume  6)
Green Lantern (Volume  7)
The Green Lantern (Volume  1)
The Green Lantern: Season Two (Volume  1)
Green Lantern Corps (Volume  1)
Green Lantern Corps (Volume  2)
Green Lantern Corps (Volume  3)
Green Lantern: Emerald Warriors (Volume  1)
Green Lantern: New Guardians (Volume  1)
Green Lanterns (Volume  1)
Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps (Volume  1)
Related
863 Appearances of Kyle Rayner (New Earth)
362 Images featuring Kyle Rayner (New Earth)
69 Quotations by or about Kyle Rayner (New Earth)
Character Gallery: Kyle Rayner (New Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Green Lantern 80-Page Giant #2
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #50
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #51
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #52 - 53
↑ 5.0 5.1 Green Lantern (Volume 3) #54
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #55
↑ Zero Hour: Crisis in Time (Volume  1 0)
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #0
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #56
↑ New Titans #116 - #118
↑ 11.0 11.1 Green Lantern (Volume 3) #59
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #60
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #63 - 64
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #66 - 67
↑ Green Lantern/Flash: Faster Friends #1 - Flash/Green Lantern: Faster Friends #1
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #70
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #71 - 73
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #74 - 75
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #78
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #77 - 78
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 2) #110 - 111
↑ Parallax: Emerald Night #1
↑ The Final Night #4
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #81
↑ JLA #1 - 4
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #83 - 85
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #86
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #88 - 91
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #100 - 106
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #107
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #108 - 112
↑ Green Lantern: The New Corps #1
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #118 - 119
↑ Day of Judgment (Volume  1)
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #120 - 124
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #129
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #130 - 131
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #132
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #133 - 136
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #137
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #138 - 139
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #145 - 150
↑ Green Lantern: Sinestro Corps Special #1
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #42
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #43
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #48
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #49
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #50
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #51
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #52
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #53
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #54
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #55
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #56
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #57
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #58
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 4) #64
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 4) #65
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #59
↑ Green Lantern: Emerald Warriors #9
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #44
↑ Green Lantern Corps (Volume 2) #60
↑ Green Lantern: Emerald Warriors #10
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 4) #67
↑ War of the Green Lanterns: Aftermath #1
↑ New Titans #116
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 3) #91
↑ JLA #23
↑ JLA #34
↑ Green Lantern Annual (Volume 3) #9
↑ JLA 80-Page Giant #1
↑ Identity Crisis #3
↑ Green Lantern Annual (Volume 3) #9
↑ JLA Classified #14
↑ JLA Classified #15
↑ Infinite Crisis #5
↑ Aquaman (Volume 5) #10
Green Lantern Corps member This character is or was a member of the Green Lantern Corps , chosen by the Guardians of the Universe to act as their sector's Green Lantern and to protect it from interstellar threats with a Power Ring . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Green Lantern Corps members category."
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of the White Lantern Corps , guided by the Life Entity to wield the White Light of Life . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " White Lantern Corps members category."
This character is or was primarily a member of the superhero team known as the Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Titans members " category.
Blue Lantern Corps member This character is or was a member of the Blue Lantern Corps , a carefully selected group of individuals who had the ability to instill great hope, and were equipped with a Power Ring . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Blue Lantern Corps members category."

Harley Quinn(disambiguation)
Harleen Quinzel ( 2011 - Present ) Harleen Quinzel Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Harleen Quinzel ( 2011 - Present )
Harley Quinn is a flamboyant supervillain /anti-hero and an adversary of Batman usually recognized as the Joker 's girlfriend and sidekick, although she has had her own strong solo career. Born as Harleen Quinzel , she had been working as a psychiatrist at Arkham Asylum where she was assigned to the Joker and fell in love with him. This led to her adopting her own costumed persona, adapting the word harlequin , to assist him escape and cause further mayhem. Their relationship is passionate and continuously off-on, with Harley's best friend Poison Ivy constantly encouraging her to break up with him for good.
However, Harley's love for the Joker eventually brings her back to his side with the Joker himself demonstrating a keen need for her despite himself and his insanity. When not with the Joker, she has been working mostly on her own in Gotham City , sometimes teaming up with her other friends. Her special abilities include an enhanced physiology due to chemical experimentation, giving her increased strength, agility and durability. She has been a member of the Secret Society of Super-Villains , Secret Six , Gotham City Sirens , Suicide Squad , Birds of Prey , Sinestro Corps , Green Lantern Corps , Female Furies , Justice League , and Batman Family .
Harley Quinn was originally created by Paul Dini and Bruce Timm as a character in the DCAU . Her first appearance was in the Batman: The Animated Series episode " Joker's Favor " ( 1992 ). Several years later, her first appearance in regular continuity took place in the graphic novel Batman: Harley Quinn ( 1999 ).
Contents
1 Related 1.1 Gang of Harleys
1.1 Gang of Harleys
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Hypertime 2.6 Elseworlds 2.7 Alternate Timelines 2.8 Possible Futures
2.1 The New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Hypertime
2.6 Elseworlds
2.7 Alternate Timelines
2.8 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 DC Animated Universe 3.2 Lego Dimensions 3.3 Injustice Multiverse 3.4 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 3.5 Harley Quinn TV Series 3.6 Others
3.1 DC Animated Universe
3.2 Lego Dimensions
3.3 Injustice Multiverse
3.4 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
3.5 Harley Quinn TV Series
3.6 Others
4 Comics
5 Other Media Titles
6 See Also
Related
Gang of Harleys
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Harley Quinn TV Series
Others
Comics
See Also: Harley Quinn Titles
Other Media Titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Harley Quinn
Cover Gallery: Harley Quinn
Harlequin

Hawkgirl(disambiguation)
Kendra Saunders ( 2016 - Present ) Kendra Saunders Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Kendra Saunders ( 2016 - Present )
Hawkgirl is a legacy name used by several characters in the DC Universe . She wields a magical mace and acts as a female counterpart to the super-hero Hawkman . The character has been involved with the All-Star Squadron , Birds of Prey , Justice League and Justice Society .
Shiera Sanders , Carter Hall 's wife, was the first to use the name during the Golden Age . Originally, Chay-Ara and her lover Prince Khufu were killed by Hath-Set with a knife forged from Nth Metal in ancient Egypt . This created a bond between them, causing the duo to be reborn multiple times throughout the centuries.
Shayera Hol , Katar Hol 's wife from the planet Thanagar also used the Hawkgirl name during the Silver Age before choosing the name of Hawkwoman .
Kendra Saunders , the niece and reincarnation of Shiera, would later take the name.
Shiera Sanders was created by Gardner Fox and Dennis Neville , first appearing in Flash Comics #1 ( 1940 ). Shayera Hol was created by Fox and Joe Kubert , first appearing in The Brave and the Bold #34 ( 1961 ). Kendra Saunders was created by James Robinson , David S. Goyer , and Scott Benefiel , first appearing in JSA Secret Files and Origins #1 ( 1999 ).
Contents
1 Reincarnations
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Hypertime 2.6 Elseworlds 2.7 Alternate Timelines 2.8 Possible Futures
2.1 The New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Hypertime
2.6 Elseworlds
2.7 Alternate Timelines
2.8 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 DC Animated Universe 3.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse 3.3 Lego Dimensions 3.4 Injustice Multiverse 3.5 Arrowverse 3.6 Others
3.1 DC Animated Universe
3.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse
3.3 Lego Dimensions
3.4 Injustice Multiverse
3.5 Arrowverse
3.6 Others
4 Comics
Reincarnations
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Teen Titans TV Multiverse
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
Arrowverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Hawkgirl Titles

Hawkman(disambiguation)
Current Former Carter Hall ( 2016 - Present ) Carter Hall Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes Katar Hol ( 2011 - Present ) Katar Hol Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Current
Former
Carter Hall ( 2016 - Present )
Katar Hol ( 2011 - Present )
Hawkman is a winged vigilante who fights crime using a flight harness made from Nth metal and a mace . There have been several different versions of the character, along with love interests and partners such as Hawkgirl . His secret identity is Carter Hall , an archaeologist and museum curator who lives out his destiny as a reincarnation of the ancient Egyptian prince Khufu using magic weaponry. Katar Hol is another version who appeared during the Silver Age , an alien policeman from the planet Thanagar with access to advanced technology. The character has been involved with the Justice Society and Justice League .
Carter Hall was created by Gardner Fox and Dennis Neville , first appearing in Flash Comics #1 ( 1940 ). Katar Hol was created by Gardner Fox and Joe Kubert , first appearing in The Brave and the Bold #34 ( 1961 ).
Contents
1 Reincarnations
2 Multiverse 2.1 New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Hypertime 2.6 Elseworlds 2.7 Alternate Timelines 2.8 Possible Futures
2.1 New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Hypertime
2.6 Elseworlds
2.7 Alternate Timelines
2.8 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 DC Animated Universe 3.2 Lego Dimensions 3.3 Injustice Multiverse 3.4 Arrowverse 3.5 Tomorrowverse 3.6 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 3.7 Others
3.1 DC Animated Universe
3.2 Lego Dimensions
3.3 Injustice Multiverse
3.4 Arrowverse
3.5 Tomorrowverse
3.6 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
3.7 Others
4 Comics
5 See Also
Reincarnations
Multiverse
New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
Arrowverse
Tomorrowverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Hawkman Titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Hawkman
Cover Gallery: Hawkman
Zauriel
Hawkman is confusing - The character's confusing history in continuity.

James Gordon (Prime Earth)
Commissioner Gordon Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name James Worthington "Jim" Gordon [ 1 ] Main Alias Commissioner Gordon Other Aliases Batman · Bat-Cop · The Commissioner Relatives Unnamed father (deceased) &#91 · citation needed &#93 · , Unnamed mother &#91 · citation needed &#93 · , Barbara Eileen Gordon (ex-wife), Sarah Essen-Gordon (wife, deceased), Barbara Gordon (daughter), James Gordon, Jr. (son) Affiliation Formerly Gotham City Police Department , Batman Incorporated , Justice League , United States Marine Corps , Secret Six , Chicago Police Department Base Of Operations Gotham City Status Alignment Good Identity Public Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Widowed Occupation Detective · Former Criminal · Police Commissioner Characteristics Gender Male Height 5' 8" Weight 166 lbs (75 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Grey Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Bill Finger · Bob Kane First Appearance Batgirl Vol 4  #1 ( November, 2011 )
Commissioner Gordon
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
James Worthington "Jim" Gordon was the commissioner of the Gotham City Police Department , before being replaced by Harvey Bullock for a brief period, and is an ally to Batman . He is the father of Barbara Gordon and James Gordon Jr. , and he is the ex-husband of Barbara Eileen .  He eventually retired, taking a role as a private investigator.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin 1.1.1 Zero Year 1.1.2 Later Adventures with Batman 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 The Darkest Reflection 1.2.2 The Court of Owls 1.2.3 Faces of Death 1.2.4 Night of the Owls 1.2.5 Knight Terrors 1.2.6 Death of the Family 1.2.7 Wanted 1.2.8 Arkham War 1.2.9 Batman Eternal 1.2.10 Endgame 1.2.11 Superheavy 1.2.12 Family Business 1.2.13 Open for Business 1.2.14 Truth Hurts 1.2.15 The Blood of Heroes 1.2.16 Robin War 1.2.17 Gordon at War 1.2.18 Bloom 1.2.19 Epilogue 1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 The Batman Who Laughs 1.3.2 The Secret Six 1.3.3 Gordons Never Give Up 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 A-Day
1.1 Origin 1.1.1 Zero Year 1.1.2 Later Adventures with Batman
1.1.1 Zero Year
1.1.2 Later Adventures with Batman
1.2 New 52 1.2.1 The Darkest Reflection 1.2.2 The Court of Owls 1.2.3 Faces of Death 1.2.4 Night of the Owls 1.2.5 Knight Terrors 1.2.6 Death of the Family 1.2.7 Wanted 1.2.8 Arkham War 1.2.9 Batman Eternal 1.2.10 Endgame 1.2.11 Superheavy 1.2.12 Family Business 1.2.13 Open for Business 1.2.14 Truth Hurts 1.2.15 The Blood of Heroes 1.2.16 Robin War 1.2.17 Gordon at War 1.2.18 Bloom 1.2.19 Epilogue
1.2.1 The Darkest Reflection
1.2.2 The Court of Owls
1.2.3 Faces of Death
1.2.4 Night of the Owls
1.2.5 Knight Terrors
1.2.6 Death of the Family
1.2.7 Wanted
1.2.8 Arkham War
1.2.9 Batman Eternal
1.2.10 Endgame
1.2.11 Superheavy
1.2.12 Family Business
1.2.13 Open for Business
1.2.14 Truth Hurts
1.2.15 The Blood of Heroes
1.2.16 Robin War
1.2.17 Gordon at War
1.2.18 Bloom
1.2.19 Epilogue
1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 The Batman Who Laughs 1.3.2 The Secret Six 1.3.3 Gordons Never Give Up
1.3.1 The Batman Who Laughs
1.3.2 The Secret Six
1.3.3 Gordons Never Give Up
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 A-Day
1.4.1 A-Day
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Abilities 2.2 Other Characteristics
2.1 Abilities
2.2 Other Characteristics
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment
3.1 Equipment
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Origin
Jim Gordon was born and raised in Chicago . [ 2 ] As a child, Jim witnessed his father commit suicide in front of him and his mother with a shotgun. [ 3 ] When Gordon was fourteen, he broke his femur while jumping a fence to escape a truant officer. [ 4 ]
When Gordon became of age, he served in the United States Marine Corps . [ 2 ] He later became an officer in the Gotham City Police Department .
Gordon and his partner Dan Corrigan were sent to pick up a young boy named Bruce Wayne , who had skipped school to watch a movie. With Bruce in the police car, Gordon received a free trench coat from a local shopkeeper, not realizing it had been a bribe. Figuring out his mistake later that night, Jim returned to the shop to find a group of corrupt police officers and petty criminals betting on dog fights, with Corrigan, his partner, leading the bets. Gordon threatened to turn all of them in but was forced to back down when Corrigan, in response, threatened Gordon's daughter. After leaving the shop, defeated, Gordon heard two gunshots down a nearby alley and was the first officer to arrive at the crime scene where Bruce Wayne's parents were murdered. [ 5 ]
Eventually, Gordon transferred to the Chicago Police Department .  He and his family lived there for some time before returning to Gotham.
Zero Year
When the mysterious vigilante known as the " Batman " started to appear in Gotham, Gordon, now a lieutenant, reacquainted himself with Wayne, only to discover that the man held a grudge against him, believing Gordon was as corrupt as everyone else on the police force.
Later, Lieutenant Gordon, investigating the crimes of the Red Hood Gang , was tipped off to the gang's plans by Wayne, rushing into apprehend the criminals at Ace Chemical Processing Plant . Discovering Batman there, Gordon attempted to put the vigilante under arrest, but Batman escaped. Gordon, sympathetic to Batman's cause, ordered his men to apprehend the real criminals - the Red Hood Gang - instead.
Gordon lights the Bat-Signal for the first time
With the Red Hood Gang stopped, the Riddler finally stepped into the spotlight and enacted his plan for "the Zero Year". Challenging Batman and forcing Gotham into a blackout only hours before a major hurricane, Gordon attempted to organize the police force, despite opposition from its corrupt commissioner Gillian Loeb . With Loeb seemingly killed as Riddler's plan continually escalated, Gordon took an even more managerial position as he worked directly alongside Batman to take Gotham back from the Riddler's control.
After Nygma was finally defeated by the two heroes' teamwork, Gordon had the Bat-Signal installed on the roof of GCPD Headquarters .
In the original New 52 continuity, Jim Gordon was then immediately advanced to the role of commissioner following the conclusion of the Zero Year; however, following subsequent continuity changes, Jim Gordon remains Captain as late as the Joker's debut. [ 6 ]
Later Adventures with Batman
Gordon eventually became Commissioner of the GCPD.  He spent years trying to root out the corruption that had taken hold so deep in the department, and was largely successful, often going to great and controversial lengths to do so.  In one incident, he fired half of GCPD's morning shift upon confirmation that the cops in question were dirty.  This had unintentional side effects; one of the fired cops, Jurgensen, ended up moving into the employ of the Joker, though he died soon afterwards. [ 7 ]
At some point, Jim's hair went gray.  He eventually began dying it red again, at his daughter's suggestion, as to avoid showing his age. [ 8 ]
New 52
The Darkest Reflection
The Court of Owls
Faces of Death
Years after, Jim worked with Batman to investigate the mystery of the Joker having his face cut off. Gordon was then captured by the villain Dollmaker as revenge for him killing his father many years ago. He was rescued by Batman before Dollmaker had a chance to kill him. [ 9 ]
Night of the Owls
After Batman dove into an investigation into the mysterious Court of Owls , the organization unleashed their assassin Talon army on Gotham to purge the city of those deemed unworthy; Gordon and the police department were pushed to their limits to save as many civilians as they could. The commissioner, having ignored the Court's threats to hold back the police, was targeted by a Talon but was thankfully saved by Batgirl . [ 10 ]
Knight Terrors
Death of the Family
A year having passed since the disappearance of the Joker, Gordon was attacked by the clown in GCPD Headquarters when the Joker came to retrieve his severed face skin from police lock-up. Gordon was later hospitalized after it became apparent the Joker had poisoned his possessions with Joker gas. [ 11 ] Gordon eventually recovered but was deeply scarred by the villain.
Wanted
Arkham War
When the Crime Syndicate apparently killed the Justice League and condoned all criminals to walk free, Gordon found himself caught in the middle of a war between villains in Gotham City. Later called " the Arkham War ", Gordon was forced to survive on the streets as a refugee when the freaks of Arkham and Blackgate fought each other for control of the city. Though he attempted to be a hero when he could, Gordon was no match for the warfare until Batman finally returned and took back the city from the villains.
Batman Eternal
Gordon goes to Blackgate
After a mysterious benefactor began a yearlong plan against Batman, Gordon became one of the first pawn's in the grand scheme. Commissioner Gordon, after chasing Professor Pyg and his cronies into a Gotham subway station, ordered one of the thugs to lower his gun, despite the criminal claiming not to have one. Taking the shot at the criminal's weapon, the bullet phased right through the weapon and hit a vital transformer behind it, causing two train cars to collide and kill a group of civilians inside. Upon reviewing the security tapes, it was revealed there really was no gun, and Gordon was arrested and sent to Blackgate Penitentiary for the innocent deaths he had accidentally caused.
While in Blackgate, Gordon was reunited with his estranged son who volunteered to help his father breakout, but Jim refused his offer. [ 12 ] Soon after, mob boss rivals Carmine Falcone and the Penguin were captured and also sent to Blackgate and continued their gang war in the prison, causing a major riot. In the chaos, Gordon worked to save as many prison guards as he could and learned that his cellmate Leo was actually the former crime boss Rex "the Lion" Calabrese .
With the investigation into the plot against Batman intensifying, Batman and his allies found evidence to suggest that Gordon had been framed for the deaths and that he was brainwashed into thinking there was really a gun. The new commissioner Jason Bard , secretly a pawn in the real villain's plot, destroyed the evidence that would clear Gordon.
Near the conclusion of his year in imprisonment, Gordon found himself caught in another riot orchestrated by the Penguin, but, this time, the criminal made Gordon the prime target. Saved only by Det. Harvey Bullock and Jason Bard , who had a change of heart, the three escaped into the streets of Gotham as the city went up in flames - the yearlong plot had reached its climax, and Gordon organized all the civilians he could in support of Batman as the hero faced the mastermind behind everything.
Endgame
With the city back to normal, Jim Gordon was restored to his rightful place as police commissioner but was immediately surprised by the initiation of the Joker's endgame . The Joker, having returned to Gotham intending to finally kill Batman, surprised Gordon in his apartment, but the commissioner managed to shoot him several times before he could get too close. Though he thought he had finally killed the Joker, Dionesium in the clown's bloodstream caused him to survive and plunge an ax into Gordon's chest, simultaneously infecting him with Joker Venom . Jokerized Gordon attempted to kill Batman but was subdued by Julia Pennyworth long enough for them to escape.
In their final confrontation, Batman and the Joker killed each in the caves beneath Gotham and the remaining Bat family managed to spread the cure to Joker's toxin throughout Gotham, healing Gordon.
Superheavy
Jim Gordon - the new Batman, and his robot batsuit "Rookie"
In the wake of Batman's apparent death against the Joker, plans for a new Batman were discussed, with Powers International laying the groundwork for a Batman-inspired task force. Their first candidate chosen to model the program was Jim Gordon, who was initially hesitant to fill Batman's shoes but eventually agreed. Going through intense government training and getting surgical muscle implants, Gordon was given the first model of the new Batman robot-armor, which he nicknamed "Rookie", and took to the streets as the new Batman. [ 13 ] By complete chance, he finds Bruce Wayne and informs him he has taken up the reigns as Batman.
Family Business
Open for Business
Truth Hurts
The Blood of Heroes
Robin War
Gordon at War
Bloom
Epilogue
DC Rebirth
The Batman Who Laughs
As Gordon hears several different reports about Bruce Wayne being found dead throughout Gotham, he works with Batman to figure out that a Batman from an alternate dark universe (known as The Batman Who Laughs ) is the one responsible. Tracking him down, Gordon seeks help from his estranged son James Jr.; however, another dark version of Batman arrives and introduces himself as The Grim Knight .
Knowing that Gordon is needed for The Batman Who Laughs to activate the 'Last Laugh' protocol, the Grim Knight knocks Gordon unconscious and takes him to Laughs' lair underneath Gotham. Gordon learns that The Batman Who Laughs wishes to potentially recruit him as an ally only for Gordon to strongly rebuke his offer. After the Batman Who Laughs leaves, the Grim Knight releases Gordon in order to hunt him within the catacombs and kill him. Learning that the Grim Knight has brought several 'hounds' for the hunt, Gordon flees only to be quickly overrun by several Dark Robins; he is further horrified to learn from the Grim Knight that these Robins are Jokerized versions of his son James, brought in from other universes. He momentarily is able to escape from the Grim Knight and meets back up with James and Batman.
Learning that Batman has been infected by the Batman Who Laughs, Gordon and James are tasked to protect the Batcave from the Grim Knight, who is on his way. With each one donning a Batsuit, they briefly get the jump on the Grim Knight. However, the Grim Knight uses Gordon's own words against him and seemingly sway James Jr. to his side. As he is strangled by the dark Batman, Gordon notices a vial of toxin poured into the water and the Grim Knight begins to drown him in the water; taking several gulps of the poisoned water, Gordon is saved by James stabbing the Grim Knight repeatedly in the shoulder and back. Gordon consoles his son and affirms that he loves him.
However, due to being subjected to a small dosage of the toxin, Gordon slowly begins to exhibit traits similar to The Batman Who Laughs.
The Secret Six
The Infected: The Commissioner
Roughly a year passes after the Batman Who Laughs is imprisoned within the Hall of Justice and Gordon is able to maintain his act, fooling Batman into thinking he was not subjected to the toxin. As Batman works with Superman to figure out what the overall plan of The Batman Who Laughs is, Gordon is able to establish contact with four other heroes the villain was able to infect as well: Shazam , Donna Troy , Hawkman and The Blue Beetle . During one of these sojourns, he gains access to his old 'Rookie' suit of armor and programs it to view Batman as a hostile.
As Batman manages to track down Gordon from a clue left by the Batman Who Laughs, Gordon gives up his facade and mocks Batman for being right under his nose the whole time. Belittling the Caped Crusader for all the cops who died throughout the years because of him, Gordon activates Rookie but is stopped from killing Batman due to Superman arriving and blocking the bullets. After mocking Batman for Superman figuring out he was infected, both Gordon and Rookie are defeated and taken to the Fortress of Solitude.
Gordon is able to escape confinement and works with Hawkman and Donna Troy to beat back Superman and Batman. He then signals to Blue Beetle and triggers the destroyed Rookie armor to bond with him. After Superman is saved by the actions of Supergirl (with her becoming infected instead of Superman), Gordon notes that The Batman Who Laughs' plan was slightly altered due to the change, but it ultimately does not matter: with all six becoming infected, they can now move on to the next stage of the plan.
Gordons Never Give Up
Infinite Frontier
A-Day
Powers and Abilities
Abilities
Criminology
Martial Arts
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Advanced) : With the aid of his son James Gordon, Jr. and special armor, they managed to defeat the Grim Knight in battle. [ 14 ] [ 15 ]
Interrogation
Intimidation
Investigation
Leadership
Marksmanship
Tactical Analysis
Military Protocol : Gordon is a former Marine, and has received standard training. [ 16 ] [ 2 ]
Other Characteristics
Hypertension : Due to years of smoking cigarettes, Gordon has developed a heart condition. While he has made attempts to quit over the years, he still occasionally relapses during times of stress. [ citation needed ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Batsuit (Formerly) : During his period as Batman, Gordon used a black and yellow version of Batman's suit. [ 13 ] Invisibility : Gordon's batsuit possessed digital camouflage capable of making him invisible.
Invisibility : Gordon's batsuit possessed digital camouflage capable of making him invisible.
Rookie (Formerly) : During his period as Batman, Gordon was given a powered suit that he called Rookie, this suit was capable of superhuman feats and following simple orders in order to fight beside Gordon. [ 13 ] Superhuman Strength Superhuman Durability Flight Weaponry : Rookie possessed rocket launchers on his shoulders. Enhanced Vision : Rookie possessed X-Ray vision.
Superhuman Strength
Superhuman Durability
Flight
Weaponry : Rookie possessed rocket launchers on his shoulders.
Enhanced Vision : Rookie possessed X-Ray vision.
Notes
Commissioner Gordon was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane , first appearing  in Detective Comics #27 . However, Commissioner Gordon first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Batgirl (Volume 4) #1 by Gail Simone and Ardian Syaf .
Trivia
Jim knows Bruce Wayne is Batman and that his daughter is Batgirl. [ 17 ] [ 18 ]
Jim had been a cop for twenty years by the time of Batman's first year as a vigilante. [ 19 ]
Jim is right-handed. [ 20 ]
In original New 52 continuity, at the time he became Batman, Jim was 46 years old. [ 13 ]
Jim and Batman used the red scarlet rotary Batphone during the early years of Batman's career to communicate with each other, a reference to the 60's series . Years later Batman upgraded it to be a red touch-screen phone. [ 21 ] [ 22 ]
The middle name Worthington was first used for James Gordon in the 1977 animated TV series New Adventures of Batman . It did not get adapted into comics until this version of James Gordon, nearly 40 years later. [ 1 ]
Related
595 Appearances of James Gordon (Prime Earth)
118 Images featuring James Gordon (Prime Earth)
51 Quotations by or about James Gordon (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: James Gordon (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 DC Comics Encyclopedia: All-New Edition
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Divergence #1
↑ Batman: The Brave and the Bold (Volume 2) #2
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #25
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #27
↑ The Joker (Volume 2) #5
↑ The Joker 2021 Annual (Volume 2) #1
↑ The Joker (Volume 2) #1
↑ Batman: Faces of Death
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #9
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #13
↑ Batman Eternal #13
↑ 13.0 13.1 13.2 13.3 Batman (Volume 2) #41
↑ The Batman Who Laughs (Volume 2) #6
↑ The Batman Who Laughs (Volume 2) #7
↑ Batman Eternal #50
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #155
↑ The Joker (Volume  2)
↑ Batman: The Brave and the Bold (Volume 2) #9
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #9
↑ Detective Comics #995
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #128
This character is or was an officer of, or held a title in the Gotham City Police Department , in any of its various incarnations. This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " GCPD members " and " Police Officers " categories.
This character is or was an incarnation of or an ally of Batman , and a member of the Batman Family . This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Batman Family members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.

Jay Garrick(disambiguation)
The Flash ( 2016 - Present ) The Flash Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
The Flash ( 2016 - Present )
Jay Garrick is a speedster and the original superhero known as The Flash . He was a Golden Age character who first appeared during World War II as a member of the Justice Society of America and the All-Star Squadron . His earliest adventures in Keystone City took place on Earth-Two , although he was introduced into mainstream continuity during the Crisis on Infinite Earths . Garrick's career inspired his successor, Barry Allen to become the second Flash. They teamed up on many occasions, along with Kid Flash and other members of the Flash Family . As one of the oldest surviving superheroes, he continues to fight against evil and acts as a mentor to the younger generation. Joan Williams is his wife of many years whom he currently lives with.
Jay Garrick was created by Gardner Fox and Harry Lampert , first appearing in Flash Comics #1 ( 1940 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Post-Crisis 1.4 Pre-Crisis 1.5 Elseworlds
1.1 The New 52
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Post-Crisis
1.4 Pre-Crisis
1.5 Elseworlds
2 Other Media 2.1 DC Animated Universe 2.2 Arrowverse 2.3 Others
2.1 DC Animated Universe
2.2 Arrowverse
2.3 Others
3 Comics
4 See Also
Multiverse
The New 52
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Arrowverse
Others
Comics
See Also
Comic series featuring Jay Garrick
Flash

Joker (Prime Earth)
The Joker Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Unknown Main Alias The Joker Other Aliases Red Hood Red Hood One Eric Border Jack Napier [ 1 ] Clown Prince of Crime [ 2 ] The Criminal The Clown The Comedian (See Notes) The Designer Johann Kaiser [ 3 ] Bizarro Joker [ 4 ] Mr. Grimaldi [ 5 ] Pagliacci [ 6 ] Relatives Unnamed mother Jeannie (wife, estranged) Jeremy (son) Lonnie Machin (possible son, deceased) Affiliation Legion of Doom · Formerly Red Hood Gang , Joker Incorporated , League of Villainy Base Of Operations Gotham City Status Alignment Bad Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Married Occupation Mass Murderer , Professional Criminal , Terrorist , Crimelord · Former Comedian, Chemical Engineer Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 5" Weight 192 lbs (87 kg) Eyes Green · · Brown ·  (formerly) Hair Green · · Brown ·  (formerly) Skin White Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Jerry Robinson · Bill Finger · Bob Kane First Appearance Detective Comics Vol 2  #1 ( November, 2011 )
The Joker
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Skin
Origin
Universe
Creators
The Joker is a homicidal maniac and the arch-nemesis of the Batman . He is an ingenious psychopath who finds humor in chaos and murder, and is one of the most dangerous men on Earth . While he typically operates out of Gotham City , he has been known to take his mayhem elsewhere, posing a threat to even the likes of the Justice League .
While his exact origins remain unclear, it has been confirmed that he fell into a vat of chemicals that bleached his hair green and his skin white. It is possible that this drove him insane, though some sources cite him as the sadistic leader of the murderous Red Hood Gang prior to this incident.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Possible Origins 1.2 Known Origin 1.3 Red Hood Gang 1.4 Creating More Jokers 1.5 First Year 1.6 The War of Jokes and Riddles 1.7 Other Early Crimes 1.8 Faces of Death 1.9 Death of the Family 1.10 Eric Border 1.11 Endgame 1.12 Return of the Three Jokers 1.13 Metal 1.14 Marriage, Doom, and Suicide 1.15 Doomsday Clock 1.16 Joker War 1.17 Infinite Frontier 1.18 The Man Who Stopped Laughing
1.1 Possible Origins
1.2 Known Origin
1.3 Red Hood Gang
1.4 Creating More Jokers
1.5 First Year
1.6 The War of Jokes and Riddles
1.7 Other Early Crimes
1.8 Faces of Death
1.9 Death of the Family
1.10 Eric Border
1.11 Endgame
1.12 Return of the Three Jokers
1.13 Metal
1.14 Marriage, Doom, and Suicide
1.15 Doomsday Clock
1.16 Joker War
1.17 Infinite Frontier
1.18 The Man Who Stopped Laughing
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Other Characteristics
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Other Characteristics
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Possible Origins
The Joker suggested many possible origins for how he came to be, though, due to his unreliable nature, many of the details are contradictory and thought to be untrue. He has said that he doesn't think of his past as multiple choice, but more "choose-your-own-adventure". [ 7 ]
One of the Joker's favorite theories was that he lived with his murderous Aunt Eunice. An abusive guardian, she bathed him with bleach, resulting in irreparable brain damage as well as the drainage of all pigmentation from his skin. [ 8 ]
When he was an active criminal, the Joker taunted multiple patients in Arkham Manor with his "true" origin story, usually feeding into their delusions. He told Ephram Snow that he was the Devil himself, having visited Snow fifteen years before the Joker's first official appearance to encourage the man to abduct and murder little girls to bring them back to Hell. [ 9 ]
He told Cordelia Doe that he was secretly an android that was abducting and replacing people with perfect android copies so he could build himself a new body. [ 7 ]
He made Morton Wales believe he was an evil clown that visited Gotham in the early 20th Century that went from factory to factory making people laugh until they died. Allegedly, the townspeople burned the clown to death on the plot of land that would one day become Ace Chemical Processing Plant . Joker told Morton that he didn't really die in the fire and that, every time someone laughed in Gotham, he got stronger - adding to Morton's irrational fear of laughing. [ 10 ]
Joker told a man named Cassidy , a former soldier, that he was the first in a long line of soldiers trained by the US Government to become part of their secret Batman army. Batman was not one person, but a squad of hundreds of men secretly trained to oppress society. The Joker had defected, becoming the Batman army's greatest threat, in an effort to save the American people from their supposed heroes. [ 11 ]
Dr. Mahreen Zaheer allegedly analyzed every source of information she could access to assemble Joker's true origin. She claimed the Joker's real name was William Distal . When he was four years old, his sister went missing and his parents were so frightened by the experience they abandoned him. He grew up in multiple foster homes until he ran away when he was 16. During the Zero Year , he faked his death, leaving some of his blood on an unidentified body, to start his life anew. However, this story, too, was put into question, because the Joker claimed to have fabricated most of Zaheer's evidence to "cheer her up". [ 7 ]
He may have been Alby , a criminal who fell into a vat of acid at A.C.E. Chemicals at the culmination of Batman's first case. [ 12 ]
Even before becoming the Joker, his DNA was not available on any records to confirm or deny any of these stories. [ 13 ]
Known Origin
However, despite the inconsistencies in his story, some parts of the Joker's backstory were apparently true.
Joker before the accident
Before becoming the Joker, he was a failed stand-up comedian with a wife named Jeannie . Jeannie was pregnant with their first child, but due to his difficult life he started becoming erratic and mentally imbalanced. Jeannie, fearing for both her life and the life of their unborn child, went to the police, who helped her fake her death and move to Alaska to escape her husband. The man who would become the Joker was informed that his wife and child had died, forcing him to experience "one bad day".
Many years later, Jeannie continued to live in Alaska in peace with her son, neither she nor the Joker knowing where they had landed in life. Bruce Wayne , who had encountered the comedian before he became the Joker, was aware of Jeannie's true fate and kept it a secret in order to protect her and her son. Because of this, he was also forced to keep Joker's true name, which he learned a week after meeting Joker for the first time, a secret. [ 14 ]
The canonicity of this story is contentious. See Notes for more information.
Red Hood Gang
Main article: Batman: Zero Year
The Joker began his criminal career as "Red Hood One," the leader of the Red Hood Gang , comprised of blackmailed individuals from the middle and upper classes of Gotham that the Red Hood kept under his sway. With the ideology of pointless violence, the gang dared the authorities to try and catch them all. [ 15 ] He first faced off against Bruce Wayne when the returned billionaire-turned-vigilante rescued some hostages from the madman. [ 16 ]
Having been tipped off by Edward Nygma , the Red Hood sent his gang to kill Bruce Wayne, catching the billionaire in an explosion in his brownstone. Taunting Wayne as he lay dying, Red Hood One added insult to injury by shooting two bullets through a portrait of Wayne's deceased parents before leaving the future vigilante to his injuries. [ 15 ]
As the tales of the urban legend known as the Batman rose in the wake of Wayne's attempted assassination, the ranks of the Red Hood Gang began to slowly dwindle bit by bit, each member caught one by one. Having discovered Red Hood One's plan, Wayne blew the gang's cover at Ace Chemical Processing Plant where the criminals were planning to steal flesh-eating chemicals. Realizing the jig was up, the Red Hood Gang led an assault there against the Batman and the GCPD.
Red Hood One becomes the Joker
Though Red Hood One attempted to escape in a helicopter, Batman fired his grappling line around his enemy's ankle, yanking him from the aircraft and sending them both plummeting through the weakened roof of the chemical plant. Almost falling into a vat of chemicals, Red Hood One was caught by Batman, who attempted to save the criminal's life. Claiming this moment to only be the beginning, the gang leader broke free of his savior's grasp and plummeted into the chemicals below.
Despite Batman's prediction that the chemicals were enough to kill him, the man's body was not recovered.
Soon after Red Hood One's disappearance, the body of a man named William Distal was found discarded and covered in lye. Though the GCPD were aware that Distal had at one point acted as Red Hood One, the lye made it impossible to tell when he had been murdered - as early as Batman's first appearance, as late as the fight within ACE Chemicals, or any time in between. Thus, the man who fell in the acid could have been Red Hood One for an indiscriminate amount of time.
The man who fell in the acid did survive, having had his skin turned pale white and his hair green. The man reappeared sometime later, unhinged with criminal insanity, calling himself the Joker . [ 17 ] [ 18 ]
Creating More Jokers
Main article: Batman: Three Jokers Vol 1
The Joker claimed, not long after this transformation, he hatched a plan to create more people like him, to spread his chaos farther than he could do alone.
Using the same chemicals that transformed him, the Joker infected multiple other people, also turning them into Jokers, too. However, of his experiments, only two survived. Unclear on who was the original, there were now three near-identical men calling themselves the Joker.
Allegedly, the three Jokers, delineating between themselves with their nicknames: the Criminal , the Clown , and the Comedian , would alternate their positions, terrorizing Batman for years. They kept their origin a secret, never making it clear that the Joker's inconsistent personality and seeming omnipotence was because the mantle was shared by three separate people.
The Criminal, cold and calculated, tended to target Batman the most early in his career .
The Clown seemed most active a a few years into Batman's career.
And the Comedian apparently was more prominent later in Batman's career . [ 14 ]
The canonicity of this story is contentious. See Notes for more information.
First Year
Not long after "the Zero Year", the Joker resurfaced and quickly made a name for himself in the city; his first attempted crime was trying to poison the Gotham Reservoir, an act that Batman successfully stopped. [ 18 ]
According to Batman himself, despite the lack of confirmed information on the Batcomputer , he had pieced together the Joker's true identity within a week of his first attack. [ 14 ] The canonicity of this story is contentious. See Notes for more information.
According to the Joker, after Batman took on an apprentice with his first Robin , Joker began thinking several steps ahead and orchestrated events he believed would lead to Grayson's replacement. Setting his sights on the young Jason Todd , the Joker faked Jason's parents' deaths to force the boy to believe he was an orphan and follow a path that would lead him to becoming Batman's next sidekick.  However, the Joker is an unreliable narrator, and this may have been a lie to manipulate Jason.
The War of Jokes and Riddles
Joker vs. the Riddler
Near the conclusion of Batman's second year as a vigilante, Joker found himself with the unique inability to laugh, thought to be caused by his continued inability to beat the Bat. Going on a chaotic killing spree of comedians, the Joker was tracked down by the Riddler , who had broken free after a year in prison, to offer that the two work together to fight Batman. Joker didn't find this offer funny though and shot the Riddler in the stomach, instigating what would later be known as "the War of Jokes and Riddles". [ 19 ]
The Joker and Riddler both recruited every villain in Gotham they could to fight in their war, which raged through Gotham for weeks, accumulating numerous civilian casualties. Batman, unable to simultaneously stop both sides, was forced to focus on one and chose to defeat Joker's side first. With Riddler and Batman's combined efforts, Joker's army was picked off until only Kite-Man remained, who they knew they could use to find Joker and end the war. [ 20 ]
In the final confrontation, the Riddler revealed that the entire plot of the war was orchestrated by him as a means to make Joker laugh, and Batman, unable to control his rage over how many deaths were caused in service of such a ridiculous motive, attempted to stab Riddler with a knife. In a surprise twist, the knife was stopped only by Joker, saving two of his enemies and regaining his ability to laugh. [ 21 ]
Other Early Crimes
The Joker's notoriety continued to grow to the point that he operated his own gang of henchmen in Gotham. At some indiscriminate point early in the Joker's criminal career, he and his gang terrorized the Gotham Zoo , killing its employees. While there, a baby gorilla caught the Joker's attention, and the clown killed its mother to raise it as his new sidekick. Naming the gorilla Jackanapes , Joker and his "son" terrorized Gotham until, on a mission to kill a Gotham City councilwoman for trying to close the Gotham Zoo, Jackanapes fells into a river and seemingly drowned. The Joker was unfazed at the death of his son, instead insisting he get a refund for the swimming lessons he purchased. [ 8 ]
Meanwhile, the Joker was in and out of Arkham Asylum constantly. In one of his stays at the asylum, the madman actually managed to seduce his psychiatrist into letting him escape and join him as his criminal accomplice Harley Quinn .
Joker kills Jason Todd
One of Joker's early plans drew the attention of the Gotham Gazette and, in particular, one of their journalists Tommy Blackcrow . Trying to investigate the clown that he clearly underestimated, Blackcrow was captured by Joker and, still undaunted, proceeded to tell the madman that he's probably the way he is because he doesn't have any friends, a comment that Blackcrow later regretted when Joker took it upon himself to make the journalist his best friend. [ 22 ]
At some point, Joker , as well as Penguin , Riddler and Catwoman , was contacted by the Designer - a new criminal in Gotham who volunteered to make their wildest schemes a reality. Though the other criminals bought into it, the Joker, however, caused the whole deal to fall apart and seemingly killed the Designer, and the villains burned down his base to leave no trace. [ 23 ]
As years passed, Joker's crimes became more violent and personal, such as torturing and paralyzing Barbara Gordon and even killing the second Robin . Again and again, Batman defeated Joker and sent him to Arkham, but his crimes had now hit much closer to home. Daniel Captio later claimed that everything the Joker did was part of a plan to unleash Zur-En-Arrh , Batman's mental backup personality. [ 24 ]
Faces of Death
Main article: Batman: Faces of Death
Years later, the Joker is a homicidal killer being hunted by Gotham's police force. After a skirmish with Batman, the Joker is caught and taken to Arkham Asylum . There, the Dollmaker pays him a visit, which the Joker seems to have been expecting. The two have cordially arranged this meeting, and the Joker has assigned his visitor with a special task: he has the Dollmaker cut off his face and pin it to the wall.
Afterward, the Joker is assumed dead by virtually everyone except Batman and hundreds of mourners have surrounded the GCPD building in a mock vigil, calling for Joker's face to be returned to them, and Batman's head too. Soon afterward Harley Quinn learns of her Puddin's "death" and betrays the Suicide Squad by orchestrating a mass prison break at Belle Reve Penitentiary. Afterward, she travels back to Gotham City, turning herself in at Gotham City Police Headquarters all in the hopes of stealing back the Joker's face.
Death of the Family
Main article: Batman: Death of the Family
The Joker made his return to Gotham City a year after his disappearance. He infiltrated the GCPD headquarters, killing the lights, slaughtering several cops and making his presence known to Gordon. In the following days, he reenacted some of his earliest crimes such as publicly announcing his intention to poison the mayor, with each crime having some morbid twist to it.
Joker resurfaces, wearing his dismembered face
After using Harley Quinn to distract Batman, the Joker went after anyone who has a connection to Batman. In order, he vanquished Batgirl , Catwoman , Robin , Nightwing , Red Robin and Red Hood . Joker brought them all to Arkham Asylum.
By the time Batman came, Joker had his defenses ready and lured the Dark Knight into his trap. Batman complied, hoping to learn more of his adversary's plans. Joker placed the entire Bat-Family on a large table, with bandages around their faces. He claimed he had removed their faces as Dollmaker had removed his. He also explained that he had instructed Dollmaker to remove his face to show that under his grin, there was only more grin. He left them and set the scene on fire.
Batman broke free. He liberated his allies and discovered their faces were still intact. He caught up with Joker, and the fight was short. Batman taunted him, claiming to have discovered who the Joker was before his chemical bath. Not wanting to hear it, Joker jumped off the cliff. [ 25 ]
In the pit, Batman would later learn, was a pool of the element Dionesium, which had the supernatural ability to heal the Joker's dismembered face skin and grant him superhuman healing, which he would later incorporate into his next plot against the Bat . Also in the cave, Joker discovered the cave painting of a bat that he wouldn't realize the significance of until even later. [ 26 ]
Eric Border
Soon after his supposed death off the cliff, Joker reappeared, but disguised as a new orderly at Arkham Asylum . Using pigmentation to conceal the pale skin on his new face and muscle relaxant pills to suppress his constant smile, Joker adopted the name "Eric Border" - "Eric" being a combination pun of the Norse and Gothic words "Eternal" and "Prince" respectively, and "Border", which is a homophone of the archaic word "bourder" meaning "jester". [ 7 ]
Befriending Dr. Mahreen Zaheer , Joker worked in Arkham, formulating his plan for return. In his new identity, the criminal kept to his roots by playing a dark prank on his new friend Dr. Zaheer by encouraging her to write a book about the "true" origin of the Joker. The clown falsified documents and paid people off in order to construct another origin story that could only potentially be true. [ 27 ] As part of his dark prank, the Joker gave each of four inmates a different origin for himself (a demon, [ 28 ] a robot, [ 9 ] a man from another time, [ 10 ] and a soldier who was the first in an army of Batmen created by the government, [ 11 ] ) with a path through Gotham that eventually leads to the publisher of Dr. Zaheer's book where the fifth inmate has Dr. Zaheer tell them her story.
Endgame
Shedding his Eric Border identity almost a year after adopting it, Joker came back with an endgame in mind for Batman. Unlike his last dastardly plot, the clown made clear that he was no longer playing ; he intended to make this his final dance with the Bat.
The Joker resurfaces for the endgame
Drugging the Justice League using a new and extremely potent Joker Venom , the madman sent Batman's superhero allies after the vigilante, forcing Batman to single-handedly fend off the entire Justice League. [ 7 ] Wasting no time, Joker infected the entire city with the same virus, turning them all into laughing homicidal maniacs. Revealing that he knew Batman's secret identity, Joker then singled out some of Batman's closest allies, putting a hatchet into Commissioner Gordon's chest [ 11 ] and cutting off Alfred's right hand with a meat cleaver. After a gruesome parade in the middle of Gotham, Joker made his way down into the depths of Gotham to his Dionesium pit, where he fought Batman in a duel to the death. With both eventually severely wounded and Joker's own supply of Dionesium neutralized, Batman and the Joker died together, side by side, under the streets of Gotham.
The Dionesium, despite having thought to been destroyed in the cave's collapse, managed to still revive both Bruce and the Joker, healing the scars on their bodies but also robbing them of their memories. The man who was once the Joker—his skin and hair turned back to normal—returned to society and started a new life at a butcher shop. [ 29 ] Months later, Bruce, also living a normal life without the knowledge that he was once the Batman, met the former Joker in the park, who had intended to kill himself that night but eventually backed down. [ 30 ]
A short time later, after Bruce used a machine in the Batcave to return all his memories of being Batman, the insanity of his former life seeped back into the reformed Joker's mind, causing him to return to his normal Joker self.
Return of the Three Jokers
During the Darkseid War between Darkseid and the Anti-Monitor , Batman was forced to sit in the Mobius Chair and become the God of Knowledge to aid in the crisis. There, with access to all the information in the universe, he asked for the Joker's real name - of which it responded, "There are three." [ 31 ] [ 32 ] Unsure of what it meant, after the conflict was resolved and Wally West was freed from the Speed Force , Batman discovered that, for years, there had been three separate Jokers terrorizing Gotham, all pretending to be the same man.
The three Jokers planned a coordinated attack with one another, finally dropping the ruse. By simultaneously committing a series of murders to distract the police long enough to hijack a truck of chemicals, the Jokers planned to experiment with the chemical to create one, perfect Joker .
Batman's investigation into the Joker led him to the Gotham Aquarium with his partners Batgirl and Red Hood - two former sidekicks who had been previously paralyzed and killed by the Joker respectively. There, the heroes captured the Joker known informally as "the Clown" and held him for questioning. The Clown, claiming to be the Joker that was responsible for killing Red Hood when he was Robin , taunted the anti-hero until Todd lost composure and murdered him, leaving two Jokers remaining. [ 33 ]
Red Hood hunted for the other two Jokers, planning to kill them too, but was ambushed by them when he had stumbled upon their failed experiments to create another Joker. Holding him hostage, the two remaining Jokers decided that Jason was the ideal candidate to become their newest Joker, although they came to the conclusion he could not live up to their standards. During the beating and laughing that it was more fun than the first time, "the Comedian" claimed he was the Joker who had killed Jason. The "Criminal" also spoke about Jason's murder. Luckily, Batman and Batgirl found Jason's location in time, stopping the chemical process but unfortunately allowing the Jokers to escape. [ 34 ]
In the Jokers' final plan, they kidnapped Joe Chill - the man who killed the Waynes - from Blackgate Penitentiary and brought him to the location of his famous murders Monarch Theater . Batman, Batgirl, and Red Hood arrived at the theater and discovered that the Jokers' plan was to then make Joe Chill the ultimate Joker. The clowns knew Batman's secret identity and believed that the thing that would hurt him the most would be to make the man who killed his parents his arch-nemesis as well. However, before the clowns could drop Chill in the chemicals, Batman saved him, avoiding the transformation.
With their plan having failed, the Joker known as 'the Comedian' killed the one known as 'the Criminal', returning to the status quo of there being only one Joker. The Comedian surrendered to the Dark Knight and offered to be escorted to Arkham Asylum.
On the way to Arkham, though Batman suspected the Comedian was the original Joker all along, the clown himself couldn't remember, casting doubt on his past once again. He also revealed that Jokerizing Joe Chill was never his masterplan; instead, he wanted Batman to save him, therefore forgiving his parents' murderer and allowing Joker to be the source of all Bruce's future trauma. [ 14 ] [ 35 ]
Metal
At some point, the Joker began investigating a conspiracy behind a cave painting he had found when he was first revived by the pool of Dionesium. Batman, following the same mystery and thinking the Joker might hold a clue, captured him and detained the clown for weeks in a secret wing secluded in the Batcave.
When Hal Jordan and Duke Thomas began following the clues to Bruce's investigation, they accidentally released the Joker from his Batcave prison. The Joker, ranting about the conspiracy he had stumbled upon and not wanting the mystery to be solved, tried to smash Batman's progress before escaping into the night. [ 26 ]
However, despite the Joker's effort, Batman continued his investigation, which lead to the invasion of the Dark Multiverse . Batman accidentally played right into a trap set for him and released the evil deity Barbatos and the Dark Knights .
In the final confrontation against the Batman Who Laughs , Batman and Joker teamed up together, with the rationale being the only thing the evil Batman couldn't anticipate was his counterpart teaming up with his greatest foe. [ 36 ] They were successful; the invasion was stopped and the Batman Who Laughs was incarcerated in the Hall of Justice .
Marriage, Doom, and Suicide
Or forever hold your peace...
Batman, weary from all his adventures, proposed to Catwoman, who accepted. However, after months of anticipation for the event, the wedding was crashed by the Joker, who convinced Catwoman not to marry Batman because happiness is Batman's greatest weakness. [ 37 ] [ 38 ] He nearly died after Catwoman slit his throat, but was saved by Thomas Wayne at the last minute. [ 39 ]
After the Source Wall was destroyed when the Justice League saved the universe from the Omega Titans , [ 40 ] Lex Luthor, having returned to being a supervillain once he discovered his life's goal was to spread doom throughout the world, hatched a plan to gain control over a piece of the Source Wall that was scheduled to crash land on Earth called the Totality . Luthor organized a supervillain team to help him, called the Legion of Doom , and reached out to reputable criminals to join him.
Joker's contentious time with the Legion of Doom
Luthor invited the Joker to join him while the clown was planning to poison Gotham's water supply with a new strain of Joker Venom . When offered the immeasurable power of the Totality, the Joker agreed to join the Legion with only condition - the Batman Who Laughs was not to be involved in any of their plans. Luthor agreed. [ 41 ]
The Justice League simultaneously learned of the power of the Totality and clashed with the Legion of Doom for control of it. With none of the Legion's members invulnerable enough to reach the unstable power of the Totality themselves, Luthor and Joker worked together to mind control Superman and Martian Manhunter to reach the object for them. Though their plan almost worked, the Totality ultimately landed in the hands of the League.
Needing to alter his plans, Luthor reached out to the Batman Who Laughs behind the Joker's back for information; the evil Batman was well versed in magical multiversal artifacts and was familiar with the lore behind the Totality and the power of Perpetua . Luthor ordered the Legion to set the Triumvirate of Sea Gods free, allowing them to temporarily drown the Earth to distract the League long enough to steal the Totality back from the Hall of Justice . The mission was a success - though the Sea Gods were stopped, the Legion was once again in possession of the Totality.
Joker however, at the mission's conclusion, betrayed the Legion of Doom, having found out that Luthor went behind his back and allied them with the Batman Who Laughs. Drugging the Legion with Joker Venom , the Joker revealed to the villains that killing them all and leaving evidence of their murders for Batman and Superman to find would have been his masterpiece, but he abandoned his plans with the Batman Who Laughs involved. Setting them free, Joker returned to Gotham, severing ties with the Legion to continue their mission for control of the universe without him.
At one point, Joker, revealing that he actually did learn the location of the Batcave years ago, snuck into the hero's lair and shot himself in the heart to activate the same toxin in his system that Jokerized the Batman Who Laughs on his world. [ 42 ] Alfred successfully resuscitated the Joker, saving him from the brink of death - though he admitted he didn't necessarily want to. [ 43 ] Batman was temporarily infected and began transforming into a monster just like the Batman Who Laughs, but he managed to cure himself before the toxin could take hold.
Doomsday Clock
Watchmen and the search for Doctor Manhattan
When heroes and villains from an alternate universe came to this Earth searching for Doctor Manhattan , the two criminals Marionette and Mime caught the attention of the Joker - whose henchmen believed the two were intruding on their boss' clown schtick and were, in turn, slaughtered by the visitors. The Joker, however, was pleased by his multiversial guests and escorted them through Gotham as the city erupted in riots. [ 44 ]
Joker brought the villains to the Riddler's secret League of Villainy , a group of criminals meant to team up and discuss the supposed "Super Theory", a conspiracy about the US government's involvement in the creation of superheroes.
However, Marionette and Mime were captured by the Comedian , who was also searching for Doctor Manhattan. Though the Comedian threatened to kill one of them, the Joker shocked the man unconscious with his joy buzzer , exclaiming his intention to find Doctor Manhattan as well. [ 45 ]
The clowns tortured the Comedian for information on Doctor Manhattan, but he didn't have much evidence to offer. Their paths crossed over with that of Batman , Rorschach and Ozymandias , with Joker even getting caught in the fight between the latter two as tensions escalated. [ 46 ]
Once Manhattan was found, the man was convinced by Superman's unwavering goodness to fix the damage he had caused to both universes. History was altered once again.
Joker War
Main article: The Joker War
Joker, once again with the knowledge that Batman was Bruce Wayne, initiated another endgame plot against the hero. At this time, Joker took on a new sidekick to help him with his plans - a woman he called Punchline .
Together, the clowns imitated plans concocted by a villain known as the Designer from earlier in Batman's career by pretending the master criminal was still alive, using a chemical that temporarily reanimated corpses. Batman was distracted defending the city as the Joker's real plan was set into motion. By the time that Batman had uncovered that the real Designer had been dead the whole time, Joker had connivingly stolen Bruce Wayne's entire fortune and company and planned to use it against him in a final gambit for the city.
Another personal attack
Joker organized a mass riot of his cronies throughout Gotham to further distract Batman while he himself wasted Bruce's fortune on things like jokerized limos and gold chain necklaces. The Bat-Family came together and organized a counterassault to get the city under control, even teaming up with Harley Quinn , eager for revenge against the Joker.
Joker, to further hurt Batman, tried to brainwash Dick Grayson into becoming his sidekick. Dick, who was still suffering from amnesia at the time and was more vulnerable to persuasion, temporarily worked with the Joker as Dicky-Boy. However, Dick's full memories returned to him, and he abandoned the Joker to once again become Nightwing . [ 47 ]
When Batman finally confronted the Joker at his headquarters at ACE Chemicals , the hero found that the Joker had revived Alfred Pennyworth's corpse using the zombie formula. The Joker was disappointed that Bane had wasted the opportunity to kill Alfred in front of Bruce and sought a do-over. Joker, wearing his own version of the Batsuit, used Batman's extensive (and expensive) gadgets against him in the climactic fight, but, as soon as he got the upper hand, the villain was surprised by a bullet to the eye from Harley Quinn.
Quinn went rogue and attached bomb vests to both herself and the Joker, and Batman was forced to decide who he had time to save. Though the Joker was positive Batman would pick him, the Bat chose Harley, leaving the Joker to die in the scenario he had gotten himself into.
With the Joker's plan foiled and the city once again under control, Batman returned to the site of the battle and found that the Joker's bomb vest had been defused. He assumed the villain had used his gadgets to get out at the last minute and went into hiding.
Infinite Frontier
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Man Who Stopped Laughing
Main article: The Joker: The Man Who Stopped Laughing Vol 1
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Unique Physiology : Due to his chemical submergence , Joker has gained beyond-average advantages over normal humans as well as further exposure has tainted his physiology. Pain Resistance : Under the tutelage of Dr. Daniel Captio , Joker learned how to essentially "turn off" his pain receptors, however after his chemical submergence, Joker seemingly enjoys pain. [ 48 ] Joker Venom Immunity
Pain Resistance : Under the tutelage of Dr. Daniel Captio , Joker learned how to essentially "turn off" his pain receptors, however after his chemical submergence, Joker seemingly enjoys pain. [ 48 ]
Joker Venom Immunity
Cheating Death : The Joker has an uncanny ability to cheat deadly situations, including before his transformation into the Joker, when he was still Red Hood One. [ 17 ]
Abilities
Genius Level Intellect : Though the Joker seemed like a madman who only wants to create chaos, his high intelligence is quite clear, The Joker is highly intelligent and skilled in the fields of chemistry and engineering, as well an expert with explosives. He is capable of hijacking television and radio broadcasts, Despite his insanity, the Joker has shown to possess an intellect capable of rivaling Batman , and Lex Luthor. [ 49 ] Gadgetry : The Joker commits crimes with countless "comedic" weapons such as; razor-sharp playing cards, acid-spewing flowers, cyanide pies, lethally electric joy buzzers and his signature Joker venom. Chemistry : Joker produced the original Joker Venom and all of its later versions. Toxicology Escapology Investigation [ 50 ] Leadership : Despite his immensely dangerous nature, through his dark charisma and extremely manipulative leadership, Joker gained the undying loyalty of countless psychopaths and criminals to form one of the most dangerous crime syndicates in Gotham City, becoming one of the most feared crime lords in the Criminal Underworld. Multiple Personalities Under the tutelage of Dr. Daniel Captio , Joker learned to use his mind to it's full potential, allowing Joker to create multiple personalities embedded in his own psyche that he can alternate between to adapt to various situations. Joker's personalities are: "The Clown" - described as playful and devilish, "The Demon" - a sinister and violent personality, and "Cold Death" - a calm and calculated personality. [ 48 ] Tactical Analysis : Despite his obvious insanity, Joker is one of the greatest criminal masterminds in the world and is always one step ahead of his enemies, even being able to surprise Batman, who everyone knows as one of the greatest strategists and tacticians in the universe. [ 51 ] Even before his transformation during his time as The Red Hood One, the man who would become the Joker proved to be a great strategist capable of planning countless crimes with perfection and leading the largest gang in Gotham. [ 52 ] Disguise : Joker was able to use skin pigments and face relaxers to disguise himself as a new orderly at Arkham Asylum named "Eric Border". Joker's disguise was so convincing, he was able to fool even Batman for several months before returning to his clown persona. [ 7 ]
Gadgetry : The Joker commits crimes with countless "comedic" weapons such as; razor-sharp playing cards, acid-spewing flowers, cyanide pies, lethally electric joy buzzers and his signature Joker venom.
Chemistry : Joker produced the original Joker Venom and all of its later versions. Toxicology
Toxicology
Escapology
Investigation [ 50 ]
Leadership : Despite his immensely dangerous nature, through his dark charisma and extremely manipulative leadership, Joker gained the undying loyalty of countless psychopaths and criminals to form one of the most dangerous crime syndicates in Gotham City, becoming one of the most feared crime lords in the Criminal Underworld.
Multiple Personalities Under the tutelage of Dr. Daniel Captio , Joker learned to use his mind to it's full potential, allowing Joker to create multiple personalities embedded in his own psyche that he can alternate between to adapt to various situations. Joker's personalities are: "The Clown" - described as playful and devilish, "The Demon" - a sinister and violent personality, and "Cold Death" - a calm and calculated personality. [ 48 ]
Tactical Analysis : Despite his obvious insanity, Joker is one of the greatest criminal masterminds in the world and is always one step ahead of his enemies, even being able to surprise Batman, who everyone knows as one of the greatest strategists and tacticians in the universe. [ 51 ] Even before his transformation during his time as The Red Hood One, the man who would become the Joker proved to be a great strategist capable of planning countless crimes with perfection and leading the largest gang in Gotham. [ 52 ]
Disguise : Joker was able to use skin pigments and face relaxers to disguise himself as a new orderly at Arkham Asylum named "Eric Border". Joker's disguise was so convincing, he was able to fool even Batman for several months before returning to his clown persona. [ 7 ]
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Advanced) : Joker is a highly skilled fighter, due to his speed and unpredictability. [ 53 ] He beat down and captured the likes of Alfred Pennyworth. [ 54 ] He killed 19 police officers inside the GCPD and killed all of the top lieutenants of every crime family in Gotham. [ 55 ] [ 56 ] Joker also bested the members of the Batfamily, beating the likes of Nightwing, Red Hood, Red Robin, Robin and Batgirl in battle and held them hostage. [ 57 ] [ 58 ] Joker even held his own against a damaged and weary Batman in battle, almost winning in the process. [ 53 ] Joker also and managed to defeat the The Batman Who Laughs , with the aid of Batman. [ 59 ]
Indomitable Will
Intimidation
Stealth
Swimming [ 11 ]
Throwing : Joker is capable of throwing his sharped cards as projectile weapons with great accuracy. [ 11 ]
Weaponry : Joker is highly skilled with knives in combat. [ 11 ]
Other Characteristics
Mental Disorder
Missing Eye : Joker had his right eye shot out by Harley Quinn. [ 60 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Joker Venom
Joker Teeth
Joker Cards
Dionesium (Formerly) : Joker's spine formerly contained the chemical compound Dionesium , within it. This allowed Joker to recover from injuries at an accelerated rate. He was able to regenerate his face after it was cut off, and instantly heal from a lethal gunshot. [ 11 ]
Transportation
Jokermobile
Notes
Joker was created by Jerry Robinson , Bill Finger , and Bob Kane , first appearing  in Batman #1 . However, Joker first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Detective Comics (Volume 2) #1 by Tony S. Daniel .
Joker (Prime Earth) appears as The Joker (Prime) a playable character in the Infinite Crisis video game.
The canonicity of Batman: Three Jokers has been subject to debate, with both DC Comics and its talent being inconsistent with whether it took place on Prime Earth or not. For more information, see the Notes section here . For our purposes on this website, we have decided to include Three Jokers as being within mainstream canon and, due to the complexities of chronicling the activities of each separate Joker, have decided to funnel their shared activity into this singular Joker page.
Of the multiple other men the original Joker transformed during Three Jokers , their delineating nicknames are as follows: [ 14 ]
4) The Fisherman
5) The Felon
6) The Cult Leader
7) The Talk Show Host
8) The Dentist
9) The City Planner
10) The Actor
11) The Zookeeper
12) The Artist
13) The Serial Killer
14) The Drifter
15) The Judge
16) The Painter
17) The Inventor
18) The Interrogator
19) The Chemist
20) The Stalker
21) The Coroner
24) The Fighter
28) The Surgeon
30) The Babysitter
Other minor aliases that the Joker has used during his long career are Gelos , [ 61 ] the Pale Man [ 9 ] and Laughing Man . [ 62 ]
Trivia
According to Peacemaker , Joker and Batman have been fighting each other for twenty years. [ 63 ]
Joker hates Bane , considering him an utter disappointment for how he handled murdering Alfred Pennyworth . Joker saw the death as having been wasted because Batman wasn't even there to be traumatized by it. [ 64 ]
The GCPD uses the code 7-20 when reporting any Joker related crimes over police radios. [ 65 ]
Related
610 Appearances of Joker (Prime Earth)
460 Images featuring Joker (Prime Earth)
69 Quotations by or about Joker (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Joker (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Red Hood and the Outlaws #14
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #2
↑ Knight Terrors: The Joker #1
↑ Action Comics #1062
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #144
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #145
↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 Batman (Volume 2) #36
↑ 8.0 8.1 Batman (Volume 2) #23.1: The Joker
↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 Batman (Volume 2) #35
↑ 10.0 10.1 Batman (Volume 2) #37
↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 11.3 11.4 11.5 11.6 Batman (Volume 2) #38
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #27
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #22
↑ 14.0 14.1 14.2 14.3 14.4 Batman: Three Jokers #3
↑ 15.0 15.1 Batman (Volume 2) #23
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #21
↑ 17.0 17.1 Batman (Volume 2) #24
↑ 18.0 18.1 Batman (Volume 2) #14
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #25
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #30
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #32
↑ Batman Annual (Volume 2) #3
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #89
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #146
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #17
↑ 26.0 26.1 Dark Days: The Casting #1
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #39
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #34
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #47
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #48
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #50
↑ DCU: Rebirth #1
↑ Batman: Three Jokers #1
↑ Batman: Three Jokers #2
↑ The canonicity of this story is contentious. See Notes for more information.
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #6
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #49
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #50
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #84
↑ Justice League: No Justice Vol 1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #13
↑ The Batman Who Laughs (Volume 2) #1
↑ The Batman Who Laughs (Volume 2) #2
↑ Doomsday Clock #5
↑ Doomsday Clock #6
↑ Doomsday Clock #7
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #70 - 75
↑ 48.0 48.1 Batman (Volume 3) #143
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #13
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #75
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #13
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #21
↑ 53.0 53.1 Batman (Volume 2) #40
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #12
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #13
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #14
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #16
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #17
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #6
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #100
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #43
↑ Batman/Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III #1
↑ Peacemaker Tries Hard! #2
↑ Batman: The Joker War Zone #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #139
Legion of Doom member This character is or was a member of the Legion of Doom , a team of supervillains called together for the purpose of conquering the world and defeating the Super Friends, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Legion of Doom members " category.
Batman Villain(s) This character, team or organization, has been primarily an enemy of the Batman , or the Batman Family as a whole. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Batman Villains ."
Robin Villain(s) This character, team or organization, has been primarily an enemy of any of the young heroes who have been known as Robin. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Robin villains ."
This character, team, or organization, has been primarily an enemy of Batgirl . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Batgirl Villains category."
This character has been primarily an enemy of the Justice League , in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Justice League Villains ."

John Constantine (Prime Earth)
John Constantine Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name John Constantine Other Aliases Hellblazer [ 1 ] · Worldwalker [ 2 ] · Doctor Smith [ 3 ] · The Laughing Magician [ 4 ] · The Constant One [ 4 ] · The Cunning Man [ 4 ] · Mystagogue of Albion [ 4 ] Relatives Thomas Constantine (father, deceased) · Mary Ann Quinn (mother, deceased) [ 5 ] · Cheryl Constantine (sister, deceased) · Unnamed twin brother (stillborn) · Tefé Holland (daughter) · Noah Ikumelo (son) [ 6 ] Affiliation Justice League Dark · Justice League Unlimited · Birds of Prey · Formerly Cult of the Cold Flame · Sinestro Corps · The Trenchcoat Brigade · Mucous Membrane · Newcastle Crew Base Of Operations formerly Dark Quarters , Hall of Justice · House of Mystery Status Alignment Neutral Identity Public Identity Citizenship British Marital Status Single Occupation Magician · Occult Detective Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 0" Weight 158 lbs (72 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Blond Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Alan Moore · Steve Bissette First Appearance Justice League Dark #1 ( November, 2011 )
John Constantine
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
John Constantine is an occult detective from Liverpool , England and a member of the Justice League Dark . His violent and anti-social attitude makes him a formidable anti-hero, and he's known for doing whatever it takes to get the job done.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.2 Shady Past 1.3 Magical Beginnings 1.4 Great Darkness 1.5 New 52 1.5.1 Adventures with the Justice League Dark 1.5.2 Trinity War 1.5.3 The Rise of Blight 1.5.4 Project Thaumaton 1.5.5 Journey to The Between 1.5.6 Showdown with the Cold Flame 1.5.7 Ending up on Earth 2 1.5.8 The Fight for New York 1.6 DC Rebirth 1.6.1 Return to England 1.6.2 The Inspiration Game 1.6.3 The Bardo Score 1.6.4 Facing the Day Crew 1.6.5 The Last Age of Magic 1.6.6 The Witching Hour 1.6.7 War against the Lords of Order 1.6.8 Doomsday Clock 1.6.9 The Witching War 1.6.10 Death and Resurrection 1.6.11 Merging with his future self 1.6.12 The Second Metal War 1.7 Infinite Frontier 1.7.1 Saving the American Dream 1.7.2 The Return of Merlin 1.7.3 Dark Crisis 1.8 Dawn of DC 1.8.1 Into the Spirit World 1.8.2 Absolute Power 1.9 All In 1.9.1 Helping the Birds of Prey
1.1 Early Life
1.2 Shady Past
1.3 Magical Beginnings
1.4 Great Darkness
1.5 New 52 1.5.1 Adventures with the Justice League Dark 1.5.2 Trinity War 1.5.3 The Rise of Blight 1.5.4 Project Thaumaton 1.5.5 Journey to The Between 1.5.6 Showdown with the Cold Flame 1.5.7 Ending up on Earth 2 1.5.8 The Fight for New York
1.5.1 Adventures with the Justice League Dark
1.5.2 Trinity War
1.5.3 The Rise of Blight
1.5.4 Project Thaumaton
1.5.5 Journey to The Between
1.5.6 Showdown with the Cold Flame
1.5.7 Ending up on Earth 2
1.5.8 The Fight for New York
1.6 DC Rebirth 1.6.1 Return to England 1.6.2 The Inspiration Game 1.6.3 The Bardo Score 1.6.4 Facing the Day Crew 1.6.5 The Last Age of Magic 1.6.6 The Witching Hour 1.6.7 War against the Lords of Order 1.6.8 Doomsday Clock 1.6.9 The Witching War 1.6.10 Death and Resurrection 1.6.11 Merging with his future self 1.6.12 The Second Metal War
1.6.1 Return to England
1.6.2 The Inspiration Game
1.6.3 The Bardo Score
1.6.4 Facing the Day Crew
1.6.5 The Last Age of Magic
1.6.6 The Witching Hour
1.6.7 War against the Lords of Order
1.6.8 Doomsday Clock
1.6.9 The Witching War
1.6.10 Death and Resurrection
1.6.11 Merging with his future self
1.6.12 The Second Metal War
1.7 Infinite Frontier 1.7.1 Saving the American Dream 1.7.2 The Return of Merlin 1.7.3 Dark Crisis
1.7.1 Saving the American Dream
1.7.2 The Return of Merlin
1.7.3 Dark Crisis
1.8 Dawn of DC 1.8.1 Into the Spirit World 1.8.2 Absolute Power
1.8.1 Into the Spirit World
1.8.2 Absolute Power
1.9 All In 1.9.1 Helping the Birds of Prey
1.9.1 Helping the Birds of Prey
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Early Life
John Constantine was born in Liverpool , England . During his childhood experiments with magic, he attempted a spell taught to him that would make him a powerful magician. However, he was not told that the spell required a sacrifice; while performing it, his family home caught fire and resulted in the death of his mother and father. [ 7 ]
Mucous Membrane
In his young adulthood, Constantine was a wild, silver-tongued punk with no idea what he was destined to become. Though he had a knack for being a conman, Constantine had continued show interest in anything of the occult, but did not take it past a hobby [ 8 ] until he began a relationship with police officer named Margaret Ames . The two bonded by going on amateur magical adventures together until Constantine decided she deserved a normal life and left her without explanation. [ 9 ] [ 10 ]
Later, Constantine and his first love Veronica Delacroix formed a mystical-themed punk band named " Mucous Membrane " with their friend Gaz Lester . The three lived the rock star lifestyle and began getting more serious with the magic they practiced together until a spell went terribly wrong, causing Delacroix to slowly lose her connection to the mortal world. Constantine was unable to stop it and the band, in turn, fell apart; as a result of this incident, Constantine became determined to focus on his skills as a magician. [ 11 ]
Shady Past
At some point, John fell in love with a young woman named Maureen, but her involvement with John eventually lead to her committing suicide, something John would always blame himself for. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] John also had a casual relationship with the demon Blythe , but the two never got more serious than the occasional shag. [ 14 ] Eventually, John ran into the traveling hippie convoy that a young psychic Mercury and her mother Marj belonged to. John and Marj became lovers for a while before John caused the convoy to break up and left. [ 15 ]
Constantine furthered his magical studies in the city of Newcastle until he and the Newcastle Crew attempted to save a young child, Astra Logue , from the demon Nergal , only to fail the spell and send Astra right into Nergal's clutches. This event was one of Constantine's greatest failures, [ 16 ] [ 17 ] and he checked himself into Ravenscar Asylum to recover from the experience, but was mistreated by the staff while there. [ 15 ]
Finding himself cursed from ever returning to London again by a demon he had crossed, Constantine instead returned to one of the places he had first learned magic - New York City. [ 18 ] [ 5 ] There or sometime before, he met Giovanni Zatara who, using his guilt to get John to help him in his plan against the eventual arrival of the Upside-Down Man and the Otherkind, made him his secret pupil unknown to his daughter. [ 19 ]
Magical Beginnings
After he learned everything he could of the occult and magical in Europe , he travelled to New York City to learn under one of the greatest mages in the world - Nick Necro , who had himself studied under the great Giovanni Zatara and Baron Winters . Nick's girlfriend at the time was Zatara's daughter Zatanna , who was herself a powerful magician. When John first laid eyes on her, he fell in love too.
There or sometime before, he met Giovanni Zatara who, using his guilt, got John to help him in his plan against the eventual arrival of the Upside-Down Man and the Otherkind , becoming his secret pupil unknown to Zatanna. [ 19 ]
The three of them studied together, battling occult threats like the Cult of the Cold Flame . Nick, however, soon became obsessed with the search for the fabled Books of Magic and, in his obsession, betrayed his friends and allied himself with the Cold Flame. [ 20 ] John and Zatanna dated for a time afterward until they were eventually driven apart when John caused her father to die during a spell gone wrong. [ 21 ] [ 22 ] Before their breakup, Zatanna casted a spell on John, commanding him to be a better person. [ 12 ]
Great Darkness
At one point in time, Constantine encountered the power of the Other Place , a Dark Multiverse realm that is the source of all dark magic, when a piece of the darkness broke free and nearly burned Heaven to the ground. Three lives were destroyed by John's magic, simply trying to commune with the darkness, in an attempt to understand it. [ 23 ]
New 52
Adventures with the Justice League Dark
Justice League Dark
Main article: Justice League Dark: In the Dark
Alerted by a magical shift in reality, John and a group of other magicians united to fight the Enchantress , who was causing havoc in the world in search of her lost host, June Moone . [ 24 ] After the group had successfully fused Enchantress and June once again, the magicians went their separate ways, having grown annoyed with their conflicting personalities. [ 25 ]
Later, however, after they all once again experienced visions of an apocalypse, the magicians once again assembled and declared themselves an official (albeit unnamed) team under Constantine's leadership. The visions came true in the form of Cain's vampire invasion, and the magicians, together, were the only ones capable of stopping vampires from taking over the world. Constantine and Deadman went to Purgatory to retrieve the recently killed vampire-hero Andrew Bennett and, after Bennett's return, successfully killed Cain and saved the world. Afterward, the team would later be codenamed - "Justice League Dark" - by Steve Trevor .
Trinity War
About one year after he had first arrived in New York, [ 26 ] Constantine was alerted to the fact that a magical artifact - Croyden's Compass - was being targeted by the evil magical organization he had fought in the past - the Cult of the Cold Flame . [ 27 ] After going on a world tour for its pieces and fighting a few high ranking members of the Cult, Constantine successfully destroyed the compass and returned to New York. [ 18 ]
Constantine and the power of Shazam
Upon his return to America, Constantine walked into a conflict when the mysterious Pandora attempted to contact heroes and villains she thought might be able to open her box . Constantine had his own plans though and, knowing that if the hero Shazam were to touch Pandora's Box, it would disrupt all the magic in the universe, temporarily stole Shazam's powers away from him. With the powers of Shazam at his fingertips, Constantine was ambushed and defeated a member of the Cult of the Cold Flame before having to return his powers back to Billy. [ 28 ] Mortally wounded from battle, Constantine was begrudgingly saved by Papa Midnite , who saw John as a lesser of two evils when compared to the impending threat of the Cold Flame. [ 17 ]
The Cult continued their assault against Constantine while he attempted to juggle the war over Pandora's Box. Stealing all of Constantine's magical artifacts from his base in New York, the three leaders of the Cold Flame transferred all of the items' magical value to themselves. Mister E, one of the leaders, then attempted to finally kill Constantine, believing him to be at his weakest but was instead vanquished by Constantine, E's powers then transferring to the final two remaining leaders. With the invitation to take E's spot as leader of the Cold Flame, Constantine agreed, secretly planning to take the cult down from the inside-out.
Constantine then returned to handle the war over Pandora's Box, gaining possession of the box in the chaos and watching as its true purpose was unleashed - summoning a doorway for the Crime Syndicate from Earth 3 .
The Rise of Blight
Fighting evil incarnate
With the Crime Syndicate's takeover and the apparent destruction of the Justice League, villains roamed free across the Earth and a new threat, the magical embodiment of evil named Blight , was formed. Constantine was among the few heroes that had escaped the Syndicate's grand entrance and began assembling a team of other magic users to fight Blight in New York City and relocate his lost love Zatanna.
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Project Thaumaton
Together, the team then managed to contain Blight themselves and set their sights on rescuing the heroes that were being kidnapped and stored in Nanda Parbat by the Crime Syndicate. Reaching the building's core, Constantine became locked in an intense battle with one of his former mentors and greatest enemies Nick Necro , working with Secret Society . Constantine successfully killed Necro and worked the free the captive heroes.
With the world saved from the Crime Syndicate, Constantine returned to the House of Mystery only to realize the House had chosen a new connection during his adventure - Zatanna. Constantine bitterly gave up command of the newly reformed Justice League Dark to the woman he had worked so hard to rescue, choosing to go back to working alone yet again. [ 29 ]
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Journey to The Between
Showdown with the Cold Flame
Ending up on Earth 2
Main article: Earth 2: World's End
Between two worlds
With the world finally safe for heroes again, John set his sights back on taking down the Cult of the Cold Flame. Having become a full-fledged leader within the cult when he took down Mister E, Constantine began to secretly ally himself with other independent magicians who might be threatened by the Cold Flame. [ 12 ] [ 30 ] However, a failure in Papa Midnite's spell caused the entire plan to collapse, and John was transported cross-dimensions to Earth 2 as it crumbled during Darkseid's attack. [ 31 ]
Finding his Earth 2 counterpart , a version of himself who lived a happy life with his friends without the curses of magic, Constantine connected with the counterparts of family members he had lost before designing a spell he thought could transport himself and as many Earth 2 residents as possible back to his world before Darkseid finally destroyed the planet. The spell was destructive, causing Constantine to watch as some of his friends and family's counterparts died in front of him again along the way, but, nonetheless, he made it back with some of the survivors and resettled back into his life in New York City. [ 2 ] [ 32 ]
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Fight for New York
Main article: Constantine: The Hellblazer Vol 1
Having gotten comfortable with his life in New York, Constantine was contacted by the ghost of his old friend Gary Lester , who asked for his help to fight a monster that was killing roaming souls. [ 14 ] After failing to trap the monster and getting Gary's ghost killed, [ 8 ] Constantine traveled to Manchester to request the assistance of his and Gary's former friend Georgiana Snow , now a skilled paranormal detective. [ 33 ] The two tracked down the monster to discover they were actually fighting the spirit of their old friend Veronica Delacroix , and, in usual Constantine fashion, the conman tricked Georgiana into killing Veronica's ghost for him so he wouldn't have to live with the guilt. No longer on speaking terms with Georgiana, Constantine returned to New York. [ 34 ]
Saving New York
Taking jobs as a freelance exorcist to pay the rent, John lived a relatively normal life for a while, and began dating a man he had met in the city named Oliver . However, this brief period of calm was soon interrupted when Oliver's life was endangered by Papa Midnite , who forced Constantine to help him get his club back from the demon Neron . [ 35 ]
Having uncovered Neron's plot to take over New York and make himself rich in the underworld with all the souls he could reap, John called for the assistance of some of his former Justice League Dark comrades to sully Neron's plans and chase him out of New York. Constantine's boyfriend Oliver, whose daughters had been used as leverage to keep Constantine out of Neron's plans, had independently made a deal to save them from the demon and was dragged to Hell before Constantine's eyes. Though John had managed to save all of New York City, he was alone yet again. [ 36 ]
DC Rebirth
Return to England
Main article: The Hellblazer Vol 1
Finding it was time to make a change from New York, Constantine returned home to London even though he was still cursed to never return. Confronting the demon who cursed him, Constantine managed to reverse the spell and begin his new adventure in his home country. [ 5 ]
Constantine was not in London long before being contacted by Swamp Thing , looking to collect on a favor: Abby Arcane had gone missing from the Rot , and Swamp Thing wanted Constantine to find her. Constantine, reconnecting with an old "friend" of his named Mercury , soon discovered that Arcane's disappearance was connected to an evil Djinn that lived in London named Marid , who plotted on changing human history. Constantine and Mercury traveled to Paris to find more information on how to fight a Djinn but, by the time they got their hands on the information, they were confronted by Marid. In the fight, Mercury and Constantine were separated and, since John had no idea how to find Mercury again, returned to London. [ 37 ] [ 38 ]
The Inspiration Game
The Bardo Score
Facing the Day Crew
The Last Age of Magic
John, like many others in the magic community sensed the oncoming changes in magic, approached Zatanna about the matter. [ 39 ] Later, having gotten the information, John approached the Swamp Thing , now member of the second Justice League Dark, critisizing him on his plan to retire in a time like this. However their conversation was interrupted by the summoning of the Upside-Down Man . Attacking the being with the rest of the League he was defeated, having his demon blood pulled out. Luckily Diana was able to banish the being before any more harm could be done. [ 40 ]
The Witching Hour
He later aided the League to stop the Hecate from taking ahold of magic. [ 41 ] Alongside Alec, John attempted to stop Nabu who had sided with the Otherkind , but was sealed within the Helm of Fate , giving the Swamp Thing time to warn of the Otherkind's near approach. [ 42 ]
With the League's defeat of Nabu, Constantine was freed. Soon after, having discovered John's inclusion in her life was by the plan of her father after his death. Explaining to her that he was at his lowest when he became his pupil, the two reconciled, only with the promise that the two never speak again after John helps her free her father from the Otherkind. [ 43 ]
War against the Lords of Order
Doomsday Clock
After Superman is framed and rendered comatose, Constantine joined the group of heroes heading towards Mars to confront their mysterious enemy. The heroes meet and engage Doctor Manhattan , but they are easily defeated. [ 44 ]
The Witching War
Death and Resurrection
Merging with his future self
Main article: John Constantine: Hellblazer Vol 1
The Second Metal War
After the invasion of the Dark Knights , John Constantine fell alongside the rest of the Justice League members [ 45 ] and was imprisoned within an altered Sun , as the universe was refashioned into the Metalverse . [ 46 ]
Months later, Wonder Woman and a group of heroes managed to rescue the prisoners. [ 46 ] During the final battle against the Last 52 Multiverse army, Constantine sided with the Forces of Justice. The Laughing Magician was suddenly attacked and nearly killed by an evil Superman , but was saved just in time by a punk-themed version of himself. [ 47 ] John recognized his counterpart's style as reminiscent of his early days in the Mucous Membrane . The two engaged in a magical battle, but eventually stopped at a ruined bar to share drinks and stories. Their paths had diverged: the Last 52 Constantine never reformed and had become a master of dark magic. Acknowledging that his counterpart was far more powerful, the Laughing Magician ultimately outwitted him by poisoning his drink. Before the other Constantine could realize what was happening, John rejected his offer to join the Darkest Knight 's army, stating he would do anything to survive. As his counterpart succumbed to the poison, John resumed drinking.
A few hours later, Constantine was erased along with the rest of the Multiverse by the Hands' Cosmic Judgment. However, the Super-Celestials chose to restore all of Creation , and John was brought back to the reborn Earth 0 . [ 48 ]
Infinite Frontier
Saving the American Dream
The Return of Merlin
Dark Crisis
Dawn of DC
Into the Spirit World
As a result of the events of Lazarus Planet , lazarus resin ripped the veil between the living world and the Spirit World and allowed jiangshi (a type of Chinese vampire that steals their victims' blood and qi) to cross over to the living world and attack people in Gotham's Chinatown. John teamed up with Batgirl and Xanthe Zhou to defeat them as well as a Collective, a twisted mass of tortured souls. They successfully banished the jiangshi and Collective back to the afterlife, but Batgirl was sucked into the spirit gate in the process, leaving Cassandra stranded in the Spirit World and Xanthe stranded in the living world. [ 49 ]
A few days later, John and Xanthe were attacked by a Collective while visiting the house of one of John's associates who owed him a favor and John thought might be able to open a portal to the Spirit World. After fighting the monster, they followed the weakened Collective towards a nearby Spirit Gate in Gotham's Chinatown cemetery. Using a paper offering from Xanthe's younger sister Stephie, Xanthe and John opened a portal and crossed over into the Spirit World after successfully defending themselves against shades lurking along the path between the lands of the living and dead taking the form of John's former lovers. [ 50 ] [ 51 ]
John and Xanthe reunited with Cassandra and worked with her to investigate a series of mysterious spirit disappearances and restore Cassandra's missing memories of her previous time in the land of the dead. While accompanying Cassandra on a visit to the fox spirit Shen to help her regain her memories, Wan Yujing launched an attack to lure John and Cassandra—the only two living souls in the Spirit World—to her so she could eat them and gain the power to open the Spirit World's Doors of Reincarnation on her own. [ 52 ] [ 53 ] To save Xanthe's spirit friend Bowen , John, Xanthe, and Cassandra went into the underbelly of the Spirit World to rescue his consciousness from Yujing. [ 54 ] In the underbelly, they discovered a magical locked door that when broken transported them to the Hall of Reincarnation in the Jade Tower—home to the Jade Court, rulers of the Spirit World. Working with his allies, John helped defeat both Yujing and the Jade Court and returned to Gotham afterwards. [ 55 ] [ 53 ]
Absolute Power
In the early moments of Amanda Waller's takeover, Constantine and the Justice League Dark were ambushed in Georgetown by Paradise Lost of the Task Force VII . The Uber Amazo managed to remove all their access to magic and quickly defeated the League: [ 56 ] Constantine and most of the Leaguers were captured by the Bureau of Sovereignty and imprisoned within the Metahuman Detention Center in Gamorra . [ 57 ]
Several days later, the Resistance managed to break into the Metahuman Detention Center, rescue its prisoners and restore all of their abilities, before taking down Amanda Waller and her allies. [ 58 ]
All In
Helping the Birds of Prey
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Magic : John is a highly skilled sorcerer, having been practicing magic since he was a teen. He quickly mastered all the magic that Europe had to offer and went to America to train under Nick Necro , a notable magician. He has claimed to be a magician of the fourth degree, however he has cast spells that exceed this level of magic. [ 32 ] John is skilled in various forms of magic, and prefers to use whatever magic necessary for the situation, including and White Magic and Black Magic [ 59 ] - a dangerous and malevolent form of sorcery that is known to come at a high cost to its practitioner. Astral Projection : John is able to create astral projections of himself. Chronokinesis : John knows a blood magic spell that allows him to temporarily stop time. [ 60 ] Cosmic Awareness [ 5 ] Dimensional Travel : John is capable of creating portals to other dimensions and realities. He can also use spells to banish demons back to Hell . [ 14 ] John can open portals to other realities in the multiverse , as well as into magical dimensions in the Sphere of the Gods . Through a complex spell, John can even travel into the Collective Unconscious and bring others with him. [ 61 ] Intangibility : John can temporarily displace items into a pocket dimension to avoid attacks. By doing this when attacked by a sword, John displaced the sword, allowing it to pass right through him unharmed. [ 62 ] Deflection : John can activate a spell called a "turnabout charm", which deflects any injury he suffers onto the person who inflicted it. [ 26 ] Divination : John can use various divination spells, such as using his cigarette to track magic energy. [ 21 ] Disintegration : John was able to use magic to incinerate a cultist. [ 27 ] Elemental Control : John can use magic to manipulate the elements for various purposes, such as: Chlorokinesis : John can use magic to command plants to attack his enemies, such as causing sharp tree branches to extend and puncture a group of enemies. [ 30 ] Electrokinesis : John is able to use magic to manipulate electricity for various effects. One spell allows him to electrocute a person with his cigarette. [ 63 ] Electro-Blast : John is capable of using magic to project bolts of lightning from his hands. [ 61 ] Photokinesis : John was able to create a burst of blinding light, which was powerful enough to harm a group of vampires. [ 64 ] Pyrokinesis : John can use magic to manipulate fire for a variety of effects. [ 65 ] He is able to engulf his hands in flames, as well as turn the small flame from his lighter into a flamethrower. [ 20 ] He is also able to shape natural flames to his will to create intricate pyrokinetic constructs. [ 66 ] Thermal-Blast : John can project a powerful stream of flames from his eyes. [ 67 ] Eldritch Blast : John can project powerful blasts of magic energy from his hands as energy bolts, beams, and even highly destructive explosive blasts. Energy Construct Creation : John can use magic to form solid energy constructs, such as shields or bridges. [ 68 ] [ 65 ] Enhanced Senses : John is able to sense the presence of magic. [ 69 ] He can also see supernatural beings that others cannot, such as ghosts . [ 14 ] Exorcism : John is able to forcibly remove possessing entities such as demonic spirits from the body they are possessing. [ 70 ] Illusion Casting : John is able to create illusions to fool people. He was able to trick Darkseid into thinking he was dead, and cast a universe wide illusion, convincing Darkseid that it was a dead dimension he had already consumed. [ 32 ] Infection : John can use a spell that allows him to poison the ice in a person's drink, killing them. [ 71 ] Invisibility : John is capable of turning himself invisible and cloaking items. [ 72 ] Necromancy : John is capable of using magic to summon and communicate with the dead. Power Absorption : John knew a spell that allowed him to temporarily steal the powers of Shazam . [ 28 ] Sigil Magic : John can use magic sigils for various purposes, such as creating protection circles that shield him from harm once entered. [ 64 ] He knows a sigil that is supposedly powerful enough to kill a god. [ 73 ] Force Field [ 64 ] Summoning : John is capable of summoning demons and other entities through various spells. Some of John's spells require him to invoke spirits and demons to fuel the spell. [ 74 ] John even knows a spell that allows him to summon Swamp Thing at will. [ 75 ] Synchronicity Wave Traveling : John has an instinctual supernatural ability to be in the right place at exactly the right time. This has led John to uncanny luck, like winning incredible amounts of money from gambling, avoiding harm, and more times than not - to meet the right kind of ally to help prevent or stop an apocalyptic event from happening. [ 76 ] Telekinesis : John can use various "binding spells" to telekinetically freeze and restrain people. One spell allowed him to use a cigarette to bind a vampire to a wall, by flicking it on to him. [ 64 ] He was also capable of telekinetically causing a gun to jam. [ 26 ] Teleportation : John is able to teleport himself, others and items, to various locations, and even across dimensions. [ 64 ] [ 72 ] Telepathy : John mentioned that he has rewritten his landlord's brain to think that he'd had already paid rent. [ 70 ] Mind Control [ 70 ] Transformation : By utilizing a spell called the Blackmare Curse , Constantine can temporarily transform into a demon conjured from his own soul. [ 77 ]
Astral Projection : John is able to create astral projections of himself.
Chronokinesis : John knows a blood magic spell that allows him to temporarily stop time. [ 60 ]
Cosmic Awareness [ 5 ]
Dimensional Travel : John is capable of creating portals to other dimensions and realities. He can also use spells to banish demons back to Hell . [ 14 ] John can open portals to other realities in the multiverse , as well as into magical dimensions in the Sphere of the Gods . Through a complex spell, John can even travel into the Collective Unconscious and bring others with him. [ 61 ] Intangibility : John can temporarily displace items into a pocket dimension to avoid attacks. By doing this when attacked by a sword, John displaced the sword, allowing it to pass right through him unharmed. [ 62 ]
Intangibility : John can temporarily displace items into a pocket dimension to avoid attacks. By doing this when attacked by a sword, John displaced the sword, allowing it to pass right through him unharmed. [ 62 ]
Deflection : John can activate a spell called a "turnabout charm", which deflects any injury he suffers onto the person who inflicted it. [ 26 ]
Divination : John can use various divination spells, such as using his cigarette to track magic energy. [ 21 ]
Disintegration : John was able to use magic to incinerate a cultist. [ 27 ]
Elemental Control : John can use magic to manipulate the elements for various purposes, such as: Chlorokinesis : John can use magic to command plants to attack his enemies, such as causing sharp tree branches to extend and puncture a group of enemies. [ 30 ] Electrokinesis : John is able to use magic to manipulate electricity for various effects. One spell allows him to electrocute a person with his cigarette. [ 63 ] Electro-Blast : John is capable of using magic to project bolts of lightning from his hands. [ 61 ] Photokinesis : John was able to create a burst of blinding light, which was powerful enough to harm a group of vampires. [ 64 ] Pyrokinesis : John can use magic to manipulate fire for a variety of effects. [ 65 ] He is able to engulf his hands in flames, as well as turn the small flame from his lighter into a flamethrower. [ 20 ] He is also able to shape natural flames to his will to create intricate pyrokinetic constructs. [ 66 ] Thermal-Blast : John can project a powerful stream of flames from his eyes. [ 67 ]
Chlorokinesis : John can use magic to command plants to attack his enemies, such as causing sharp tree branches to extend and puncture a group of enemies. [ 30 ]
Electrokinesis : John is able to use magic to manipulate electricity for various effects. One spell allows him to electrocute a person with his cigarette. [ 63 ] Electro-Blast : John is capable of using magic to project bolts of lightning from his hands. [ 61 ]
Electro-Blast : John is capable of using magic to project bolts of lightning from his hands. [ 61 ]
Photokinesis : John was able to create a burst of blinding light, which was powerful enough to harm a group of vampires. [ 64 ]
Pyrokinesis : John can use magic to manipulate fire for a variety of effects. [ 65 ] He is able to engulf his hands in flames, as well as turn the small flame from his lighter into a flamethrower. [ 20 ] He is also able to shape natural flames to his will to create intricate pyrokinetic constructs. [ 66 ] Thermal-Blast : John can project a powerful stream of flames from his eyes. [ 67 ]
Thermal-Blast : John can project a powerful stream of flames from his eyes. [ 67 ]
Eldritch Blast : John can project powerful blasts of magic energy from his hands as energy bolts, beams, and even highly destructive explosive blasts.
Energy Construct Creation : John can use magic to form solid energy constructs, such as shields or bridges. [ 68 ] [ 65 ]
Enhanced Senses : John is able to sense the presence of magic. [ 69 ] He can also see supernatural beings that others cannot, such as ghosts . [ 14 ]
Exorcism : John is able to forcibly remove possessing entities such as demonic spirits from the body they are possessing. [ 70 ]
Illusion Casting : John is able to create illusions to fool people. He was able to trick Darkseid into thinking he was dead, and cast a universe wide illusion, convincing Darkseid that it was a dead dimension he had already consumed. [ 32 ]
Infection : John can use a spell that allows him to poison the ice in a person's drink, killing them. [ 71 ]
Invisibility : John is capable of turning himself invisible and cloaking items. [ 72 ]
Necromancy : John is capable of using magic to summon and communicate with the dead.
Power Absorption : John knew a spell that allowed him to temporarily steal the powers of Shazam . [ 28 ]
Sigil Magic : John can use magic sigils for various purposes, such as creating protection circles that shield him from harm once entered. [ 64 ] He knows a sigil that is supposedly powerful enough to kill a god. [ 73 ] Force Field [ 64 ]
Force Field [ 64 ]
Summoning : John is capable of summoning demons and other entities through various spells. Some of John's spells require him to invoke spirits and demons to fuel the spell. [ 74 ] John even knows a spell that allows him to summon Swamp Thing at will. [ 75 ]
Synchronicity Wave Traveling : John has an instinctual supernatural ability to be in the right place at exactly the right time. This has led John to uncanny luck, like winning incredible amounts of money from gambling, avoiding harm, and more times than not - to meet the right kind of ally to help prevent or stop an apocalyptic event from happening. [ 76 ]
Telekinesis : John can use various "binding spells" to telekinetically freeze and restrain people. One spell allowed him to use a cigarette to bind a vampire to a wall, by flicking it on to him. [ 64 ] He was also capable of telekinetically causing a gun to jam. [ 26 ]
Teleportation : John is able to teleport himself, others and items, to various locations, and even across dimensions. [ 64 ] [ 72 ]
Telepathy : John mentioned that he has rewritten his landlord's brain to think that he'd had already paid rent. [ 70 ] Mind Control [ 70 ]
Mind Control [ 70 ]
Transformation : By utilizing a spell called the Blackmare Curse , Constantine can temporarily transform into a demon conjured from his own soul. [ 77 ]
Demon Blood (Formerly) : Before it was ripped from his body by the Upside-Down Man , John's body contained demon blood, which is what allowed him to channel magic and cast spells without facing the cost of it, as well as withstand a level of magic that a human body cannot normally handle. [ 73 ]
Abilities
Deception : John Constantine is an excellent con artist and negotiator. These skills are often more useful than his magical ones. Constantine faces most of his challenges relying primarily on his cunning skills.
Escapology
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Basic)
Hypnosis
Indomitable Will : John possesses the willpower to resist being possessed by Deadman. [ 62 ] He was also not corrupted by Pandora's box.
Intimidation
Investigation : John is a highly skilled detective, specializing in occult investigations. [ 78 ]
Multilingualism : John speaks some amount of French. Though he claims the only thing that stuck from his French classes was "il, elle, nous sommes", this was probably a lie. [ 79 ] He also knows a little of British Sign Language, which he learned when he met his son, Noah. [ 6 ]
Occultism : John possesses extensive knowledge of magic and the supernatural. [ 26 ] [ 80 ] [ 7 ] He's stated to have read every Necronomicon and Book of Chaos written by the most ancient practitioners of dark magic. [ 81 ]
Prestidigitation
Singing : Before Constantine became an experienced magician, he was the lead singer in the punk-grunge band Mucous Membrane . [ 11 ]
Surveillance : John is is a keen observer, capable of surveying and spying on people without them noticing. [ 78 ]
Throwing [ 82 ]
Weaponry : John doesn't usually wield weapons, however he has displayed skill with knives, as well as an axe, which he used to kill vampires . [ 82 ]
Weaknesses
Allergies : He is allergic to cats. [ 83 ]
Cancer : Constantine has a unspecified cancer that was once held at bay by demon blood until it was extracted out of him by Upside-Down Man . [ 84 ]
London Curse : (Formerly) John was cursed by the demon Nybbas [ 5 ] to be affected by a mortal sickness if he were to stay in London . [ 18 ] , which led him to leave for New York City . With Merc's help, John eventually blackmailed the demon into lifting the spell. [ 5 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Silk Cut
Lighter
Dream's Sand Pouch : (Formerly) After Dream was captured and his objects were stolen from him, Constantine found Dream's sand pouch in San Francisco at a garage sale, and took it home until it was stolen by his then-girlfriend. John stated he only used a few grains of the pouch's sand, which took him an entire month to get out. [ 85 ]
Magic Gauntlets : (Formerly) Constantine won a pair of enchanted gloves in a card game with a demon , that allow its user to fight non-corporeal beings hand-to-hand. However, John gave them to Batman because he "doesn't like fighting with his hands". [ 86 ]
Transportation
Chas Chandler's Taxi (Formerly)
House of Mystery (Formerly)
Weapons
Moonblade : (Formerly) The Moonblade appeared as one of John's arsenal of magical weapons. The blade is said to shape with the different faces of the moon (Longsword when its full moon, dagger when its new), and just like the twin blade, it can kill anyone with one clean hit. John used it to kill Mister E. Those killed by the moonblade has their spirits stored in it, making them the perfect slaves for Constantine.
Yellow Lantern Ring (Formerly)
Notes
John Constantine was created by Alan Moore and Steve Bissette , first appearing as part of Earth-One in Swamp Thing (Volume 2) #37 . Following the launch of the Vertigo imprint, the Vertigo version of Constantine was split from his main counterpart, aged in real-time and had no relation with the greater DC Universe. When the New 52 initiative was launched, the Vertigo Constantine remained in publication, while this version of Constantine debuted on Prime Earth in Justice League Dark #1 by Peter Milligan and Mikel Janin . This new Constantine bears strong similarities to the New Earth version of the character who resurfaced during Brightest Day .
Trivia
Deadman often calls John " Con-Man ". [ 72 ] [ 77 ] [ 87 ]
Glyanna of P'luhnn considers Constantine one of the Alpha defenders of Earth . [ 88 ]
Constantine once had an protege named Chris , whom he abandoned to be killed by Sargon the Sorceress . [ 89 ]
Constantine is considered one of the most powerful magicians on Earth [ 90 ] ; formerly, he was considered the strongest "magic blood" designation, a classification of magic wielders who carried magic blood to be able to withstand a level of magic ordinary humans cannot handle. [ 91 ]
Constantine doesn't know how to ride a bicycle and has never learned. [ 15 ]
Constantine hates the word " moist " and admitted he'll jump through verbal hoops to avoid saying it. [ 15 ]
Constantine doesn't like the band Coldplay . He considers their music to be "for bedwetters". [ 92 ]
Recommended Reading
Justice League Dark (Volume  1)
Constantine (Volume  1)
Constantine: The Hellblazer (Volume  1)
The Hellblazer (Volume  1)
Justice League Dark (Volume  2)
The Sandman Universe Presents: Hellblazer #1
John Constantine: Hellblazer (Volume  1)
John Constantine: Hellblazer - Dead in America (Volume  1)
Related
387 Appearances of John Constantine (Prime Earth)
234 Images featuring John Constantine (Prime Earth)
102 Quotations by or about John Constantine (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: John Constantine (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Trinity of Sin: The Phantom Stranger #14
↑ 2.0 2.1 Constantine #18
↑ John Constantine: Hellblazer #3
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 John Constantine: Hellblazer #5
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 The Hellblazer: Rebirth #1
↑ 6.0 6.1 John Constantine: Hellblazer #12 ;
↑ 7.0 7.1 Constantine #14
↑ 8.0 8.1 Constantine: The Hellblazer #2
↑ The Hellblazer #13
↑ The Hellblazer #14
↑ 11.0 11.1 Constantine: The Hellblazer #4
↑ 12.0 12.1 12.2 Constantine #13
↑ Constantine #19
↑ 14.0 14.1 14.2 14.3 Constantine: The Hellblazer #1
↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 15.3 The Hellblazer #5
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #11
↑ 17.0 17.1 Constantine #6
↑ 18.0 18.1 18.2 Constantine #3
↑ 19.0 19.1 Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #10
↑ 20.0 20.1 Justice League Dark #0
↑ 21.0 21.1 Justice League Dark #12
↑ Swamp Thing (Volume 2) #50
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #3
↑ Justice League Dark #3
↑ Justice League Dark #5
↑ 26.0 26.1 26.2 26.3 Constantine #4
↑ 27.0 27.1 Constantine #1
↑ 28.0 28.1 Constantine #5
↑ Justice League Dark #29
↑ 30.0 30.1 Constantine #16
↑ Constantine #17
↑ 32.0 32.1 32.2 Constantine #23
↑ Constantine: The Hellblazer #3
↑ Constantine: The Hellblazer #5
↑ Constantine: The Hellblazer #8
↑ Constantine: The Hellblazer #13
↑ The Hellblazer #1
↑ The Hellblazer #12
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #1
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #2
↑ Justice League Dark and Wonder Woman: The Witching Hour #1
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #6
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #13
↑ Doomsday Clock #9
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal Legends of the Dark Knights #1
↑ 46.0 46.1 Dark Nights: Death Metal #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal The Last 52: War of the Multiverses #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #7
↑ Lazarus Planet: Dark Fate #1
↑ Spirit World (Volume 2) #1
↑ Spirit World (Volume 2) #2
↑ Spirit World (Volume 2) #3
↑ 53.0 53.1 Spirit World (Volume 2) #6
↑ Spirit World (Volume 2) #4
↑ Spirit World (Volume 2) #5
↑ Absolute Power #1
↑ Absolute Power #2
↑ Absolute Power #4
↑ New History of the DC Universe #2
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #59
↑ 61.0 61.1 Justice League Dark #25
↑ 62.0 62.1 Justice League Dark #30
↑ Constantine #15
↑ 64.0 64.1 64.2 64.3 64.4 I, Vampire #17
↑ 65.0 65.1 Earth 2: World's End #10
↑ All-Star Western (Volume 3) #25
↑ Aquaman & The Flash: Voidsong #3
↑ Grayson Annual #3
↑ Justice League Dark #23
↑ 70.0 70.1 70.2 Constantine: The Hellblazer #6
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal The Last 52: War of the Multiverses #1
↑ 72.0 72.1 72.2 Constantine #10
↑ 73.0 73.1 Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #3
↑ The Sandman Universe Presents: Hellblazer #1
↑ Justice League Dark #19
↑ The Curse of Brimstone Annual #1
↑ 77.0 77.1 Justice League Dark #27
↑ 78.0 78.1 John Constantine: Hellblazer #8
↑ The Hellblazer #8
↑ Constantine #11
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #5
↑ 82.0 82.1 Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #7
↑ Batman: The Brave and the Bold (Volume 2) #17
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #13
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #7
↑ Batman: The Detective #1
↑ Trinity of Sin: The Phantom Stranger #16
↑ Superman Treasury 2025: Hero for All #1
↑ Constantine #1
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #26
↑ DC Nation : Magic Masters
↑ The Hellblazer #7
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Sinestro Corps , chosen by Sinestro to counteract the Green Lantern Corps and spread terror throughout their sector with a Power Ring . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Sinestro Corps members category."

Justice League (Prime Earth)
Justice League Gallery Official Team Name Justice League Team Aliases Super Seven, Suicide Squad , [ 1 ] Justice League of America , [ 2 ] Justice League Reserves, Justice League Unlimited Status Active Alignment Good Universe Prime Earth Base of Operations Justice League Satellite ; Formerly Hall of Justice , Justice League Watchtower , Justice League Watchtower Satellite , Secret Sanctuary Affiliations Team Leader(s) Superman (Clark Kent) Formerly Aquaman (Arthur Curry) , Batman (Bruce Wayne) , Cyborg (Victor Stone) , Green Arrow (Oliver Queen) , Martian Manhunter (John Jones) , Superman (Jon Kent) , Wonder Woman (Diana Prince) Current Members Abin Sur (Time Displaced) Ace Morgan Adam Strange Air Wave Alpha Centurion Ambush Bug Animal Man Aquaman (Arthur Curry) Aquaman (Arthur Curry) ( Time Displaced ) Argus Arrowette Arsenal (Roy Harper) Artemis Atom (Ray Palmer) Atom (Ryan Choi) Atom Smasher Batgirl/Oracle (Barbara Gordon) Batman (Bruce Wayne) Batman (Bruce Wayne) ( Time Displaced ) Batman (Bruce Wayne) ( Time Displaced ) Batman (Terry McGinnis) (Time Displaced) Batwoman Beast Boy Beast Girl Big Barda Black Adam Black Canary Black Lightning Blue Beetle (Jaime Reyes) Blue Beetle (Ted Kord) Blue Devil The Boom Booster Gold Boruka Boy Thunder ( Time Displaced ) Bulleteer Bumblebee Cadejos Captain Atom Captain Comet Citizen Steel The Creeper (Jack Ryder) Cyborg Damage Deadman Detective Chimp Doctor Fate (Khalid Nassour) Doctor Light (Kimiyo Hoshi) Doctor Mid-Nite (Beth Chapel) Doctor Mist Doctor Occult Donna Troy Donna Troy ( Time Displaced ) Dragonson Elasti-Woman Elongated Man The Envoy Etrigan / Jason Blood Fire Firestorm (Ronnie Raymond) The Flash (Avery Ho) The Flash (Barry Allen) ( Time Displaced ) The Flash (Jay Garrick) The Flash (Wally West) The Flash (Wally West) ( Time Displaced ) Gangbuster Gold Green Arrow (Oliver Queen) Green Lantern (Alan Scott) Green Lantern (Hal Jordan) Green Lantern (Guy Gardner) Green Lantern (John Stewart) Green Lantern (Jessica Cruz) Green Lantern (Jo Mullein) Green Lantern (Kyle Rayner) Green Lantern (Simon Baz) Harley Quinn ( Time Displaced ) Hawk (Hank Hall) Hawkgirl (Kendra Saunders) Hawkman (Carter Hall) Heckler Hourman (Rick Tyler) Ice Impulse Iron Jade Jakeem Thunder John Constantine Jonah Hex (Time Displaced) June Robbins Katana Kid Flash (Wallace West) Krypto Lightning Martian Manhunter Mary Marvel Max Mercury Mera Metamorpho Metamorpho ( Time Displaced ) Miss Martian Mister Terrific Mister Terrific ( Time Displaced ) Monkey Prince Negative Man Nightshade Nightwing Nubia Obsidian Omen Orion Pantha Phantom Girl ( Time Displaced ) Plastic Man Plastic Man ( Time Displaced ) Platinum Power Girl Professor Haley The Question (Renee Montoya) Ragman Rana Dorada Raven The Ray Red Canary Red Ryan Red Star Red Tornado Robin (Damian Wayne) Robin (Dick Grayson) ( Time Displaced ) Robin (Jason Todd) (Time Displaced) Robin (Tim Drake) Robotman Rocky Davis Sand Santa Claus/Klaus , [ 3 ] Shazam/The Captain Shining Knight Sideways Signal Sin The Spectre [ 4 ] Spoiler (Stephanie Brown) Star Sapphire (Carol Ferris) Starfire Stargirl Steel (John Henry Irons II) Steel (Natasha Irons) S.T.R.I.P.E. Super-Man (Kong Kenan) Superboy (Conner Kent) Supergirl Superman (Clark Kent) Superman (Clark Kent) ( Time Displaced ) Superman (Jon Kent) Superman Blue (Time Displaced) Swamp Thing (Levi Kamei) Tawky Tawny Teen Lantern Tempest Thunderbolt Thunderheart Thunderlord Tuatara Trinity (in future) Ultra, the Multi-Alien (Time Displaced) Vixen Wildcat (Yolanda Montez) Wonder Girl (Yara Flor) Wonder Woman (Diana Prince) Wonder Woman (Diana Prince) ( Time Displaced ) Zan Zatanna Zealot Former Members Aquaman (Jackson Hyde) Atomica Aztek (deceased) Batman (James Gordon) Captain Boomerang Captain Cold Commander Steel Deadshot Doctor Fate (Kent Nelson) (deceased) Dove El Dorado Element Woman Faith Firestorm (Ronnie Raymond/ Jason Rusch ) Firestorm (Ronnie Raymond/ Martin Stein ) The Flash (Barry Allen) Frankenstein Frost Goldrush Green Arrow (Connor Hawke) Gypsy Harley Quinn Hawkman (Katar Hol) (Deceased) Hawkwoman (Shayera Thal) Huntress Jarro Jayna Jericho Jesse Quick Killer Croc Lex Luthor Lobo Major Disaster Man-Bat Maxima Mister Miracle Naomi Oberon The Over-Monitor Phantom Girl (Linnya Wazzo) The Question (Narcissus) The Question (Vic Sage) Red Arrow (Emiko Queen) Snapper Carr Starman (deceased) Steel (Hank Heywood III) Superwoman (Lois Lane) Tefé Holland Tomorrow Woman Vibe Wildcat (Ted Grant) (deceased) Wonder Woman (Hippolyta) (deceased) The World Forger Allies A.R.G.U.S. , Doom Patrol , Green Lantern Corps , Justice League Dark , Justice League of China , Justice Foundation , Justice Society of America , Legion of Super-Heroes , The Terrifics , Titans , Wonder Twins , Young Justice , Aquaman Arrow Batman Flash Shazam Superman Families ; Formerly Justice League of America , Justice League of America II , Justice League International , Justice League Odyssey , Justice League United , Teen Titans , Shayne J'onzz Enemies Amazo , Anti-Monitor , Black Mercy , Brutus , Catman , Cheetah , Coldsnap , Count Vertigo , Court of Owls , Crime Syndicate , Cyborg Superman , Dark Knights , Darkseid , Deathstroke , Demolition Team , Despero , Dominators , Doctor Light , Double Down , Eclipso , Eradicator , Fearsome Five , Felix Faust , Frost King , Giganta , Girder , Gorilla Grodd , Grail , Graves , Heatstroke , Hyperclan , Icicle , Anthony Ivo , Kalibak , Kanto , Key , King Shark , Lashina , Legion of Doom , Major Disaster , Mammoth , The Maximums , Multiplex , Neutron , Ocean Master , Parademons , Perpetua , Plastique , Power Ring Corps , Queen Bee , Qwardians , Red Lion , Scarecrow , Secret Society , Spore , Starro , Steppenwolf , Tartarus , Timeless , Ultraviolet Corps , Weapons Master , Zumbado ; Formerly Clayface , Copperhead , Dark Army , Doctor Destiny , Fan , Libra , Myrina , Triumvirate of Sea Gods Origin Place of Formation Metropolis Creators Julius Schwartz · Gardner Fox First appearance Justice League Vol 2  #1 ( October, 2011 )
Justice League
Official Team Name
Team Aliases
Status
Alignment
Universe
Base of Operations
Affiliations
Team Leader(s)
Current Members
Former Members
Allies
Enemies
Origin
Place of Formation
Creators
The Justice League Unlimited , also known as the Justice League of America or simply the Justice League , is an organization comprised of the world's greatest superheroes. Together, they operate as a team dedicated to fighting crime and injustice, and act as Earth's first line of defense from terrestrial, extraterrestrial and interdimensional threats.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Formation 1.1.1 Origin 1.1.2 Early Adventures and Later Iterations 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 The Villain's Journey 1.2.2 Throne of Atlantis 1.2.3 Trinity War 1.2.4 Forever Evil 1.3 Lex Luthor's Justice League 1.3.1 New Direction 1.3.2 Rao 1.3.3 Darkseid War 1.4 Rebirth 1.4.1 Justice League vs. The Suicide Squad 1.4.2 Out of Time 1.4.3 The Discovery of the Dark Multiverse 1.4.4 Justice Lost 1.4.5 No Justice 1.4.6 The Totality 1.4.7 The Sixth Dimension 1.4.8 The Justice / Doom War 1.4.9 Return of the Dark Multiverse 1.4.10 Endless Winter 1.5 Infinite Frontier 1.5.1 Dark Crisis 1.5.2 A world without a Justice League 1.6 All-In
1.1 Formation 1.1.1 Origin 1.1.2 Early Adventures and Later Iterations
1.1.1 Origin
1.1.2 Early Adventures and Later Iterations
1.2 New 52 1.2.1 The Villain's Journey 1.2.2 Throne of Atlantis 1.2.3 Trinity War 1.2.4 Forever Evil
1.2.1 The Villain's Journey
1.2.2 Throne of Atlantis
1.2.3 Trinity War
1.2.4 Forever Evil
1.3 Lex Luthor's Justice League 1.3.1 New Direction 1.3.2 Rao 1.3.3 Darkseid War
1.3.1 New Direction
1.3.2 Rao
1.3.3 Darkseid War
1.4 Rebirth 1.4.1 Justice League vs. The Suicide Squad 1.4.2 Out of Time 1.4.3 The Discovery of the Dark Multiverse 1.4.4 Justice Lost 1.4.5 No Justice 1.4.6 The Totality 1.4.7 The Sixth Dimension 1.4.8 The Justice / Doom War 1.4.9 Return of the Dark Multiverse 1.4.10 Endless Winter
1.4.1 Justice League vs. The Suicide Squad
1.4.2 Out of Time
1.4.3 The Discovery of the Dark Multiverse
1.4.4 Justice Lost
1.4.5 No Justice
1.4.6 The Totality
1.4.7 The Sixth Dimension
1.4.8 The Justice / Doom War
1.4.9 Return of the Dark Multiverse
1.4.10 Endless Winter
1.5 Infinite Frontier 1.5.1 Dark Crisis 1.5.2 A world without a Justice League
1.5.1 Dark Crisis
1.5.2 A world without a Justice League
1.6 All-In
2 Paraphernalia
3 Notes
4 See Also
5 Recommended Reading
6 Links and References 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Formation
Origin
The Justice League was formed early after the appearance of superheroes when the villain Darkseid attempted an invasion of Earth.
Founding members
As Parademons swarmed the planet, allies Batman , Green Lantern , The Flash and Superman teamed up to reduce the damage. Wonder Woman (on a diplomatic tour of Washington, D.C. ), Aquaman (whose kingdom was also under attack), and Cyborg (created by one of Darkseid's exploded Fatherboxes ) also joined in the fight. The group of seven heroes repelled Darkseid and his forces back to Apokolips , and the world was beyond grateful for their cooperation. The heroes decided that, in the interest of protecting the Earth, they would stay in touch.
However, the team wasn't formalized until an invasion by the Appellaxians , a race of monsters from the planet Appellax .  The seven — minus Cyborg, whose condition required him to be put in suspended animation, plus the Martian Manhunter and the second Black Canary — battled the monsters, with several members nearly being turned into trees in the process.  Afterwards, the five of them (as Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman only joined the team properly soon after) formally created the Justice League , establishing a Secret Sanctuary in the town of Happy Harbor , Rhode Island , with the help of mechanic Lucas "Snapper" Carr . [ 5 ]
Early Adventures and Later Iterations
The Justice League battles Starro for the first time!
The Justice League would work together to stop other invading forces, with one of their most prominent takedowns being Starro the Conqueror . [ 6 ] With the Martian Manhunter, the League fought the Weapons Master ; other early foes of the group included Professor Anthony Ivo and his Amazo android. [ 7 ] In one adventure, several Leaguers were imprisoned within a giant diamond from which they were freed by the the Green Arrow , [ 8 ] who became one of the League's first non-founding members and formed many close relationships within the team, including with his future partner the Black Canary . [ 9 ] The League was magically controlled by the fingers of Felix Faust , [ 10 ] encountered the alien warlord Queen Bee , who forced the League to do her bidding, [ 11 ] and fought Doctor Destiny , a supervillain armed with the Dreamstone , with Hawkman , another new member. [ 12 ] Other foes that they battled during this time were the aliens Despero and Kanjar Ro , immortal Vandal Savage , magical menace Eclipso and supervillain Dr. Light . [ 5 ]
Following an encounter between Barry Allen and Jay Garrick , the Flashes of two heroic generations, the Justice Society of America fully came out of retirement to defeat the Crime Champions alongside their League sucessors. The two teams began to act together from this point forward to battle any threats too great for a single band of heroes, such as the Earth 3 Crime Syndicate , comprised of corrupted version of some of the League's greatest heroes. [ 5 ]
The Justice League defeats Brother Blood!
The team later adopted a new headquarters, the orbital Justice League Satellite , [ 13 ] and grew significantly, taking on the Atom , Elongated Man , Red Tornado , Zatanna , Firestorm , [ 14 ] and Hawkgirl . [ 15 ] This iteration of the League fought against Libra , an ally of Darkseid, [ 16 ] the returned Doctor Destiny, [ 17 ] the Teen Titans' foes the Church of Blood , [ 18 ] and Darkseid himself. [ 15 ] The "Satellite" League worked with Doctors Bruce Gordon and Mona Bennett to construct and defend " Solar City ," a clean-energy installation meant to promote alternatives to fossil fuels. The League provided Gordon with the personal effects of the villain Doctor Light , including unbeknownst to them, a Golden Diamond which allowed the demon Eclipso to escape the Black Diamond in which he was imprisoned aboard the Justice League Satellite. The next day, the League gathered there to watch a total solar eclipse, which Eclipso took advantage of to strike against them, possessing the Green Lantern, Green Arrow, Black Canary, and Atom and turning them against their teammates. While the rest of the League fought off their friends, the Red Tornado, immune to Eclipso's control, confronted him, but was defeated and fled the satellite to seek help from the Justice Society. At the same time, Bruce Gordon, also under Eclipso's control, fired on the Justice League Satellite with a light cannon. [ 19 ]
The Justice League becomes possessed by Eclipso!
Though the satellite was destroyed, Eclipso chose to keep the Leaguers alive as his instruments: while he focused his control on Batman and Superman, he imprisoned the rest in a giant black diamond in the Sahara Desert . Though the captive Justice League was meant as bait to entrap their rescuers, the combined willpower of Hal Jordan and Alan Scott , the Justice Society's Green Lantern, bolstered by the goading of Green Arrow, was sufficient to free the heroes. Together, the League and Society confronted Eclipso at the Solar City, only for their enemy to turn them to crystal. [ 8 ] The heroes were restored, however, by Batman's sidekick Robin with an amulet from the JSA's Doctor Fate . The two teams split into groups to counter Eclipso's plot to disrupt the Earth's satellites. While Batman and Superman pursued Eclipso and a mind controlled Bruce Gordon to a satellite control center in Greenland , their teammates responded to the disruption's aftereffects with the JSA's support: the Atom and Green Lantern performed emergency medical intervention and restarted the city's electricity grid, respectively, in Chicago , the Flash aided firefighters in Coast City , and the rest of the League fought alongside rebel forces in the Republic of Mustan . Eclipso took control of the Justice Society, turning them against the Justice League until the elder heroes rejected any fears of being replaced by the younger team. Batman had Doctor Fate teleport the demon to their location—and that of Bruce Gordon—stunning Eclipso when the beam of his Black Diamond struck that of Gordon's golden one. Superman and Fate returned Eclipso to captivity within the diamond, which was placed under constant light in orbit around the sun. The League and Society parted amiably, to meet again soon. [ 20 ]
For a time, the Justice League was reconfigured into a team based in Detroit , [ 21 ] and succeeded by new incarnations such as the Justice League International and Justice League Task Force . [ 22 ] The original League later reformed with Wally West , Kyle Rayner , and Connor Hawke —the current Flash, Green Lantern, and Green Arrow—and other new members such as Aztek , [ 23 ] Plastic Man , [ 13 ] and Tomorrow Woman —the last in reality a creation of Professor Ivo and T.O. Morrow meant to infiltrate and destroy the League. [ 24 ] This JLA exposed the false heroes of the Hyperclan as malevolent White Martians , [ 25 ] was defeated when Ra's al Ghul gained access to contingency plans made by Batman to target his teammates, [ 26 ] and was replaced by a roster of stand-in Leaguers: Nightwing, the original Green Arrow, the Atom, Hawkgirl , Jason Blood , Faith , and Major Disaster . [ 9 ] Hawkgirl would join the main lineup of yet another iteration of the League that also included Black Lightning , Vixen , and the Red Arrow , [ 25 ] former sidekick of the Green Arrow, [ 27 ] while the JLA's base, the Justice League Watchtower on the Earth's Moon , was abandoned [ 28 ] for the Hall of Justice in Washington, D.C. [ 29 ] and a new Watchtower, another orbital satellite . [ 30 ] Eventually, long-time Justice Society affiliate Jade would also become a member of the Justice League. [ 31 ]
New 52
The Villain's Journey
Main article: Justice League: The Villain's Journey
Though often a core member of the League, the Martian Manhunter eventually left under mysterious circumstances after confusion and mystery regarding his origins resulted in a brawl between him and his teammates. Years later, the Justice League was still an active force of justice, with its roster consistent with many of its founders. The hero Green Arrow tried to audition for the team, but the League rejected his application because of their recent failure with the Manhunter. [ 30 ]
The League against Graves
The writer who gave the Justice League their name years earlier David Graves, having since gained superpowers and a resentment for heroes since the team's formation, became the super-villain Graves. Graves sought to bring down the League and, in order to get information on them, hunted down and tortured their enemies and loved ones. [ 6 ]
With enough information and a plan in place, Graves attacked the League's headquarters—an orbiting satellite called the Watchtower. [ 32 ] As part of his plan, Graves broadcasted the League members fighting and bickering among themselves as they struggled to take him on, ruining the public's trust in the super group. [ 33 ] Though the League managed to finally defeat Graves at Mount Sumeru , the damage to their reputation had been done. In order to save the group some face, Green Lantern resigned, taking much but not all of the blame with him.
In an altered version of history , after this, members Superman and Wonder Woman began a romantic relationship. [ 34 ] However, this was eventually erased from the timeline.
Throne of Atlantis
Main article: Throne of Atlantis
A portion of the Justice League was forced into action when Aquaman's half brother Ocean Master declared war on the surface world by attempting to drown Gotham City and Metropolis . Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and Aquaman attempted to reduce the damage and deescalate the situation.
Orm, having initiated the war by falsely believing that the surface world had attacked Atlantis first unprovoked, as commanded his army onto dry land to invade. Orm also sentenced the members of the Justice League to imprisonment in the Trench .
Aquaman was forced to rescue his teammates from the Trench while Cyborg and a collection of some of Earth's other heroes fended off the invaders. When Aquaman returned with the rest of the League, he forced Ocean Master's surrender and reclaimed his throne as king of Atlantis to stop the war. The League discovered that the whole conflict—including the false flag attack on Atlantis—had actually been orchestrated by Aquaman's mentor Vulko to have Arthur return to his kingdom.
During the conflict, the Justice League would deputize a group of heroes as "Reserve Members," not granting them full membership but an officially designated alliance. These heroes were: Element Woman , Green Arrow, Black Lightning, Shazam , Hawkman, Vixen, Zatanna, Goldrush , Black Canary and Firestorm. [ 35 ]
Trinity War
Main article: Trinity War
As the Justice League accrued more and more political power with every victory, Amanda Waller organized her own anti-Justice League team to work for the government in the event they were ever needed to bring down the real deal. This team would be confusingly named the Justice League of America . While the Justice League was recruiting new reserve members, Waller had Atomica join their ranks as a spy for her own JLA.
When Justice League member Shazam broke a no-fly rule over the country of Kahndaq to respectfully scatter his enemy Black Adam's ashes, Waller used the political opportunity to send her Justice League of America in to flex their strength against the League.
Three different Justice Leagues fight for Pandora's Box
The confrontation escalated and eventually led to violence between the heroes, and, in the skirmish, Superman seemed to kill JLA member Doctor Light, only worsening the tension.
While this conflict was going on, the mysterious woman Pandora floated between heroes, asking for them to open her box and hopefully contain the evil within the world. This important decision with Pandora only compounded with the already high anxiety between the two teams, and, to make matters worse, the Justice League Dark inserted themselves into the discussion too. The three Justice Leagues couldn't seem to all get on the same page and went to war with one another, pitting hero against hero about what to do with Pandora's Box.
However, at the end of the conflict, all the heroes realized they had been duped by the Outsider of Earth 3 , who used the box as a portal to bring the Crime Syndicate to Earth to conquer it.
Forever Evil
Main article: Forever Evil
After the Crime Syndicate, an evil alter-reality version of the Justice League, invaded Earth, they quickly defeated their heroic counterparts and trapped them within the Firestorm Matrix to rule the world unabated. The only members of the Justice League to escape their imprisonment were Batman and Cyborg, the latter of which had all of his cybernetic parts ripped from him by a sentient AI system .
Thanks to a team of rogue supervillains calling themselves the In justice League , the Crime Syndicate was defeated, and the League was freed.
Lex Luthor's Justice League
Post-Syndicate roster
As compensation for their heroism in the crisis (and a little extortion), former villains Lex Luthor and Captain Cold were invited to join the League as official members. They accepted, and Luthor immediately went over all their heads and made the political decision to invite Shazam to join as a full time member as well.
After the League ran into conflict with the Doom Patrol for who would be able to recruit the new Power Ring , the League won out, and Jessica Cruz was added to the League roster as well, with the promise that they would teach her to control her new powers. [ 36 ]
The League experienced a crisis when a failed assassination attempt on Luthor's life at LexCorp accidentally released an experimental pathogen onto Metropolis. Though the virus was meant to suppress superpowers in violent crimes, it removed all but the most invulnerable's powers in the city and gave superpowers to otherwise powerless people. Expediting the pandemonium, people who received powers, mostly civilians, would die from the virus in a matter of time.
The Justice League attempted to contain the damage of the Amazo Virus, but their members continued to drop out due to infection. They were forced to fight patient zero of the virus, but, after Luthor synthesized a cure using Superman's resistant Kryptonian blood, he was able to administer it to the rest of the city and end the pandemic. [ 37 ]
New Direction
Same names, new costumes
The Justice League went on a brief hiatus as all its members coincidentally went in drastic new directions in their lives—Batman died, was resurrected, and was replaced by Jim Gordon , Superman lost a majority of his powers and was slowly dying, Aquaman was kicked out of his kingdom and had become an outlaw, etc.
However, when a giant skeleton was discovered in the Himalayas , the Justice League reconvened to investigate. Without their ace detective Batman, the heroes recruited Gordon—who believed he was out of his league working with... the League, to help them with his detective skills. The team included Superman, Wonder Woman, Aquaman, Cyborg, Batman (Jim Gordon), The Flash and Shazam.
The Justice League found the answer to the giant skeletons in the mountains—actual giants . The heroes tried to fight them off, but when Gordon noticed they were emotional creatures trying to protect each other, he sang them a lullaby to calm them down and end the conflict. [ 38 ]
The Leaguers would go back to focusing on their own lives, rarely meeting up while until their stories, predictably, eventually went back to the status quo.
Rao
The original Super Seven back together against Rao
The Justice League, back to their normal selves, reformed as the core seven founding members when they encountered the Kryptonian god-figure Rao , having arrived on Earth with his disciples. Rao went around the Earth performing miracles, including terraforming Africa . Though Rao intended his acts to be charitable, governments across the world worried at being deemed unnecessary by the god.
The Justice League split up to handle different aspects of Rao and his followers' alterations, with Green Lantern Hal Jordan and the Flash going back into time to Krypton to investigate more against the mysterious man. The heroes realize Rao's malicious intentions, hoping to terraform the entire Earth and use Kryptonian DNA to populate the plan with a new race of ultra Kryptonians to worship him.
Though Rao's plan makes a lot of progress, affecting a huge number of the population, the Justice League fight back and attempt to undo his damage. Rao died in the ensuing fight, and the conflict was over.
Darkseid War
Main article: Justice League: The Darkseid War
Rebirth
Main article: DC Rebirth
Justice League rebirth
After the apparent death of Superman, the Justice League regrouped, adding the two Green Lanterns Simon Baz and Jessica Cruz to their roster.
In New 52 Continuity, Superman died and then was replaced by his New Earth counterpart on the league. However, as a result of Superman Reborn , their histories were merged, and they became one person.  As such, Superman did not truly 'die' in this incident, though the events seemingly still occurred.
The new team's first mission together was a worldwide threat: alien parasites were invading major cities and abducting people while cosmic entities called the Kindred spoke of the end of the world. The Justice League tried to reduce the damage across the world but realized that the alien invaders were trying to save lives from the impending apocalypse rather than start it themselves. As the immediate conflict drew to a close, the Justice League were forced to prepare for the alleged end of the world. [ 39 ]
Jessica Cruz temporarily left the team after a fear entity infected them all and made them play into their deepest anxieties. Though Jessica used her Lantern ring to overpower and destroy the entity, she felt, after the fact, that she wasn't ready to be a part of such an impressive team. [ 40 ]
The Justice League also had to deal with a computer virus that hacked into Cyborg and forced their orbital Watchtower to collapse to Earth, as well as hacked the Batcave and Simon Baz's Lantern ring. The virus was created by good-intentioned hacktivist James Palmer, whose technology was accidentally co-opted by his children, not realizing they had been using it to destroy the League. The situation had gotten so dire as to have accidentally put a huge bounty on the League's heads, sending a swarm of villains to their location to collect, but the heroes defeated them and got the computer virus under control. [ 41 ]
Justice League vs. The Suicide Squad
Jessica Cruz rejoined the Justice League, and Batman informed the team of the existence of Amanda Waller's covert super-villain labor team the Suicide Squad . The Justice League was disgusted by what they learned and interfered in one of the Squad's missions, wanting to disband the outfit. Though the League managed to overpower most of the Squad, Waller activated the aces up her sleeve and used the Enchantress and Killer Frost to ultimately defeat the heroes.
League vs. Squad
The Justice League were transported to Belle Reve and kept in containment, almost forced to join the Squad themselves. However, when Maxwell Lord freed the original Suicide Squad from their isolated maximum security cells to help him secure the Heart of Darkness, Waller had her current Squad team up with the League to stop him.
The mission went awry, and Lord successfully activated the Heart of Darkness to become the newest host of Eclipso. He infected a majority of the Justice League under his spell, leaving Batman and the Suicide Squad to fight his forces as he took over the White House . Killer Frost, again, showed the strength of her power and was the lynch pin in finally defeating Lord.
In the aftermath, the Justice League agreed to tolerate the Suicide Squad—which, as it was revealed, was secretly Amanda Waller's plan all along, having manipulated Lord to execute every step of his plan. Batman, believing the world needed a new super group with the strength of both the League and the Squad, formed the newest iteration of the Justice League of America .
Out of Time
The Justice League went on another time travelling adventure, being tasked by a girl named Molly the Keeper to stop a race of time entities called the Timeless . The Justice League were dispersed across the time stream until they realized that Molly had tricked them and instead intended to destroy Earth's heroes. The League came back together and ultimately stopped Molly. [ 42 ]
After a few more smaller adventures, Aquaman's fiancé Mera joined the team in his place, as Arthur was indisposed with his own problems.
Soon after, the League was visited by their time-displaced children from 20 years in the future— Cruise Jason and Jenny Allen, the children of Barry Allen and Jessica Cruz , Cube, the son of Cyborg , Hunter Prince, the son of Wonder Woman and Serenity, the daughter of Aquaman and Mera . Their children requested their help in stopping an entity that wrecked their future called the Darkness as well as the Sovereign , Aquaman's evil future self. [ 43 ]
The Discovery of the Dark Multiverse
Justice Lost
The Justice League began to lose public favor when the American government put them on trial to investigate their unregulated autonomy; their case was not strengthened when one of their super fans dressed up like Batman and murdered an investigator. [ 44 ] Cyborg stepped up as leader of the League [ 45 ] and tried his best to relieve tensions politically, though this was borderline fruitless.
Things only continued to get worse. The Justice League and the Justice League of America teamed up to save a portion of a city after a train collision, but, despite trying to save as many lives as possible by focusing on the district in the most imminent danger, by total coincidence, this made the Justice League appear to prioritize saving only the rich residents. Class-action lawsuits began to spring up in the US over people who felt they were not fairly saved by the Justice League.
Also, the Justice League Watchtower again fell to Earth, landing in Africa and destroying their reputation there. The Justice League was forced to defend their technology from African warlord Red Lion , who wanted to use their tech to wage war on other African nations. Red Lion, not giving up on his powerplay, attempted to extort the US government for a large sum of money for their connection to the Justice League and how poorly they were perceived to be handling the conflict in Africa. The Justice League were forced to pull out of Africa and accept that they were incapable of solving all the world's issues.
No Justice
After the Source Wall was broken by the Justice League as they tried to harness Element X , [ 46 ] the entire Green Lantern Corps tried to seal it back together but ultimately was not able to fix it. The villain Brainiac came to Earth and collected heroes and villains to battle the Omega Titans . The Titans were released from the crack in the wall to devour entire planets: in particular—his home world of Colu . Brainiac created four teams; one to stop each Titan. Entropy , Mystery , Wisdom and Wonder . [ 47 ]
Mystery
Entropy
Brainiac paired the Justice League up with heroes and villains from other teams in what he analyzed would be the best groupings to defeat each of the four Omega Titans. However, before Brainiac could lead them all in the fight, his head exploded due to Amanda Waller accidentally overloading him with a collection of Earth's strongest psychic users to learn more about his plan. Without a unifying leader, the four branches of the Justice League— Entropy , Mystery , Wisdom and Wonder —touched down on Colu. [ 47 ]
The Justice League struggled to understand how to stop the Wisdom Titan from destroying Colu, and decided to follow their nodes to the four Trees and restart the dying three energies to bring balance to Colu. At the Tree of Wonder, Superman and Sinestro discovered ten thousand stolen shrunken worlds. And having broken into the Ultra Penitence Prison; Batman and Deathstroke freed the prisoners held within, creating Entropy, until in the center of the prison they released Brainiac 2.0 . [ 48 ]
Wonder
Wisdom
Brainiac 2.0's demand was: change Brainiac's plan. Brainiac 1.0 would have used the heroes to rule Colu by siphoning their power and diverting the Omega Titans to Earth. Instead the heroes continued to rejuvenate the weaker Trees, and Cyborg weakened the Tree of Wisdom.
The weakened Trees were reignited, but it was all too late, as the Wisdom Titan opened his armor, and engulfed the planet. [ 49 ] Brainiac 2.0 was livid and left the League stranded to ensure that the Earth met the same fate as Colu.
The Justice League returned to Earth to find that Brainiac I had planted a Cosmic seed there, and the Omega Titans followed. Unsure how to stop them from consuming their world, Cyborg realized the way to defeat them was to supercharge the Tree of Entropy's Cosmic Seed and implant it within the hungry Entropy Titan. Once Green Arrow had fired it into the Titan, his three brothers could not resist the need to feast upon him and Entropy was destroyed; his brothers: satiated; and Earth: saved. [ 50 ]
The Totality
The new roster, Justice vs. Doom
The Justice League, once again, updated its roster after the world was saved, adding Martian Manhunter, Hawkgirl and John Stewart as members. Without their Watchtower, the League set up their new official base in the recently rebuilt Hall of Justice.
Lex Luthor, having returned to villainy after discovering the cosmic strength of entropy in the galaxy and how, in the future, he would be revered as a martyr for his commitment to doom in the "age of heroes," assembled a new team of all the League's greatest villains to specifically counter them, calling it " the Legion of Doom ." The Justice League and Legion clashes over controlling a cosmic force called the Totality , though the League managed to take it for themselves. [ 51 ]
The Legion of Doom organized for the Triumvirate of Sea Gods to invade the Earth in an attempt to literally and metaphorically drown it . With Aquaman leading the charge, the Justice League fought to take down the gods and stop them from also turning Earth's citizens into sea monsters. Utilizing this as a diversion, the Legion of Doom assaulted the Hall of Justice, with only Batman as guardian inside, and took back the Totality. [ 52 ] Also, Aquaman seemingly sacrificed himself to end the attack of the Triumvirate and Manta , leaving the League without a member. Then, Mera accepted to take his place. [ 53 ]
During this event, three of the League's members were away in an intergalactic mission: the Martian Manhunter, Hawkgirl and Green Lantern Corps member John Stewart went to Thanagar Prime , so that they could meet The Keep and find more information about both the Totality, Hawkgirl's connection to it and the true role of the Green Martian race. Once there, they discovered the universe was allied against Earth, as humans were about to uncover a secret that could extinguish all reality.
They found out that inside the Totality resided Perpetua , mother to a Multiverse who was predecessor to the one they lived in. The Guardians of the Universe hid all the truths leading to her, because if she was going to come back, reality would be doomed.
But the actions of Humans on Earth were going to unleash her, and so Thanagar was preparing to destroy Earth itself. Also, The Keep revealed to J'onn that Humans and Green Martians were once merged by Perpetua to create an army of perfect predatory warriors.
To prevent an intergalactic crisis, the rest of the League intervened and got to Thanagar Prime, helping out their comrades and calming the situation down. Starman , now recovered from damage, also tells Kendra that she's ready, after being reconciled with Shayera, to fulfill her role: repairing the Source Wall. [ 54 ]
The Sixth Dimension
Trying to find a way to fix the Multiverse , the Justice League was able to trap Mr. Mxyzptlk inside the Black Diamond , with Martian Manhunter holding the Imp 's powers off. Soon though, Mxy demonstrated them they could not hold him off, but understood they called him to ask for help. Moving inside the Hall of Justice, the Imp explained them that the Fifth Dimension was part of the Multiverse as well, and it broke just like everything else. Their only option might be to travel into the Sixth Dimension , an higher dimensional plane where beings like Perpetua and her sons were from. The Imp told them the true story of the first Multiverse, and then revealed he charged Superman with Fifth Dimensional energy since he first met him to prepare him for this travel.
Superman entered the portal to the Sixth Dimension, and instants later came back, older and changed: revealing them he found the solution to defeat Perpetua in the Sixth Dimension, Clark invited all his comrades to join him, and so they all moved there. [ 55 ] Once inside, they found an utopian paradise, where Justice won and everything was perfect. Soon though, thanks to Shayne , son of J'onn and Kendra in this impossible future, the League found out the real Superman was imprisoned, and the World Forger was the one talking to them instead. [ 56 ] The Forger knew that with Perpetua returning, the Multiverse would be doomed and probably judged unworthy by the Source , so he created an alternative Multiverse right there, in the Sixth Dimension, to overwrite the current one.
The Wrath of the Forger!
In this Multiverse, everyone who refused Justice was killed or locked up in prison. It was a perfect Multiverse, maybe worthy of being saved by the Source. Superman was locked up, because in all the alternate paths the Forger explored, it was him who stopped Alpheus from realizing his plan, while Batman was the one to approve it. The Dark Knight did so, while the other members of the League where jailed in a maxi-prison.
As the Forger told Batman that Mxyzptlk was following his directions, undoing reality in their Multiverse right now, the other Leaguers were helped by the surviving members of the Legion of Doom to escape, and tried to fight both the Forger and Batman to stop the overwriting of reality. [ 57 ]
Then, Batman double-crossed the Forger, giving Superman a chance to come back, empowered by thousands of suns. Thanks to his power, Superman was able to knock out the Forger and shatter his utopia. The League then convinced the Forger to try another route: the one of joining them actively in the fight against his mother, Perpetua. [ 58 ]
The Justice / Doom War
Back from the Sixth Dimension, the League found out Luthor and his Legion used the attack of Mxyzptlk to erase reality as propaganda, so that Luthor could convince most of the planet to side with Doom. The campaign to turn the Multiverse into a follower of Doom was started, and was the final key to complete the awakening of Perpetua. The League had to counter the actions of the Legion, so the World Forger suggested to find and recruit both his brothers, the Monitor and Anti-Monitor . Both of them joined him in the past, to lock away Perpetua in the Source Wall. For their love of the Multiverse, the Forger thought they could do the same. [ 58 ]
On Nil, the League found the Monitor who, without success, was trying to contact once again the Source for help. He accepted to join forces with the League, [ 59 ] who also tried to find the Anti-Monitor on Qward : once there, they found a message of Mobius, who told to not follow him or search for him. [ 60 ] Coming back with only one of the brothers, Starman had a plan of his own: create two portals, one for the future and one for the past, to find ang bring to the present two shards of the Totality which fell into Hypertime . With them, together with Starman's own piece inside his Cosmic Rod , the League would create a Justice Totality to rival the one in possession of the Legion. Meanwhile, J'onn J'onzz was tricked by Lex Luthor, who trapped him and absorbed him into his own body, becoming the Apex Predator.
Adrift in the Future!
As the Forger and the Monitor stabilized the two portals, Flash and John Stewart went to the past, while Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman went to the future. As soon as they entered the portals though, a mysterious masked man got into the Hall and entered the portal to the past, telling them they were going to lose. After this man entered, both portals collapsed. [ 61 ] Starman, sure that he would be able to bring everyone back once they got the shards, decided to leave together with the Forger and the Monitor, travelling to the edge of the Multiverse, where they thought the Anti-Monitor might be. Both Hawkgirl and Shayne came with them, as the power of the Raptor stored in Kendra's wings was key to the success of Starman's plan.
Meanwhile, John and Barry met the Justice Society of America in the past: the group gave them a hand, fighting together against Sinestro, Grodd and Cheetah in Pearl Harbor , as the Totality shard was stored inside one of the ships part of the fleet stationed there. [ 62 ] After getting back the piece of the Totality, Aquaman appeared, revealing himself to be the intruder who entered the portals back in the Hall. Telling them he was working with the Anti-Monitor, Arthur suggested to use the Conch of Arion to launch the Totality shard to the present.
In the future, at the same time, Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman, together with Kamandi , battled against Brainiac One Million , but were able to defeat him and collect their shard.
Doom Reigns Supreme!
At the edge of the Multiverse, the League found the Anti-Monitor, who accepted to become part of the alliance of Justice. Combining himself with his brothers, they became the Ultra-Monitor , and started fighting against Perpetua. As Starman, connecting with his past and future versions, was able to reunite all the shard of the Totality, bringing everyone back, Hawkgirl had to use her power to seal Perpetua away again. But Kendra, with too much bloodlust for Luthor because of what he did to J'onn, failed to capitalize, distracted by Lex, and condemned the League to a defeat, and Starman to his death. [ 63 ] [ 64 ] [ 65 ] Getting back to the Hall of Justice and witnessing the betrayal of the Anti-Monitor, who sided with Perpetua, the League reunited all its members to get ready for the final confrontation against Luthor. [ 66 ]
As the forces of Doom arrived in front of the Hall, all the heroes fought, and even Martian Manhunter came back thanks to the sacrifice of his son, Shayne. But it wasn't enough: even after a plea to the whole Multiverse, the living beings of every planet still sided mostly with Doom, allowing Perpetua and Luthor to win. As Perpetua stroke down all the core members of the League, they were secretly transported to the moon by the Quintessence , who gave them a chance to gather the Anti-Crisis energy to try and attack Perpetua. [ 67 ] [ 68 ] [ 69 ] But the mission failed, and once back to Earth, they found their planet turned into the Metalverse, an apocalyptic world ruled by Perpetua's new right hand, the Batman who Laughs . [ 70 ]
Return of the Dark Multiverse
The Justice League endures the assault from The Dark Multiverse!
Main article: Dark Nights: Death Metal
Endless Winter
The Justice League battles The Frost King!
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Infinite Frontier
Black Adam joins The Justice League!
Main article: Infinite Frontier
Dark Crisis
Main article: Dark Crisis
Many of the Leaguers were suddenly taken to the Hall of Heroes by the Justice League Incarnate , who revealed that they needed their help to defeat Pariah and the Great Darkness . The Great Darkness then attacked the Hall, and Doctor Multiverse teleported the heroes to Multiverse-2 where they found Pariah working to help the Great Darkness enter the Multiverse. Pariah summoned the Dark Army , a team of villains enslaved by the Darkness, to attack the Leagues. As they fought the Army, they discovered that the villains were not their usual selves, instead fighting purely by brute strength. [ 71 ]
The Justice League gets killed by Pariah!
During the fight, Black Adam attacked Darkseid, freeing him from the Great Darkness. Darkseid tried to explain to the Leaguers how to defeat the Darkness, but was taken back by it before he could complete his revelation. Green Arrow shot an explosive arrow into Pariah's chamber, destroying it and causing the Dark Army to vanish, but not before Doomsday seemingly killed the Arrow. The Trinity then tried to attack Pariah, but were annihilated by him with a wave of energy. The rest of the League soon met the same fate, with the exception of Black Canary and Black Adam, the latter of whom tried to attack Pariah, surviving only by calling down the lightning of Shazam , striking them both, and transporting Adam back to Earth 0 . There, he told the heroes that the Justice League was dead. [ 71 ]
The New Justice League!
After the revelation of their deaths, a funeral was held for the Justice League. Multiple super-villains around the world started exploiting the gap left by the League to strike, including Deathstroke's Secret Society . Superman (Jon Kent) decided to reform the Justice League, recruiting members and presenting his new team to Black Adam: Supergirl , Doctor Light , Blue Beetle (Jaime Reyes) , Frost, Frankenstein , Booster Gold , Blue Beetle (Ted Kord) , Aquaman (Jackson Hyde) , Robin (Damian Wayne) and Harley Quinn . Adam criticized the line-up, pointing out its flaws, [ 72 ] but led this new version of the League in fighting Deathstroke's forces around the world, though it would soon disband over disagreements with his leadership. [ 73 ] Meanwhile, Hal Jordan and Barry Allen traveled into Pariah's multiverse, looking to rescue the presumed-dead members of the League, who were in reality trapped in idealistic worlds and fueling a machine of Pariah's that would bring back the Infinite Multiverse. [ 74 ] While trapped in his utopic world, Superman became lucid, realizing that if he and the League focused on each other, their mental connections across worlds would free them together. The League appeared in Pariah's Base of Operations, [ 75 ] and returned to Earth 0 via Hal Jordan's Green Lantern Ring and Barry Allen's connection to the multiverse's vibrations, uniting with Earth's heroes to fight the Dark Army. [ 76 ]
With the defeat of the Dark Army, the League felt that they needed time to rethink what their team should be, officially disbanding and passing the torch to Nightwing. Tasked with leading the superhero community into the future, [ 77 ] he starting by reforming the Titans . [ 78 ]
A world without a Justice League
After the disbanding of the League, each of its members left to live their own lives, [ 79 ] with the Titans acted as the Earth's premier superhero team while receiving assistance from the world's other heroes, among them the former members of the League. As a consequence of the Titans' greatest crisis in this capacity, Amanda Waller and her Bureau of Sovereignty gained political power, occupying the Hall of Justice and rebranding it as the Hall of Order. [ 80 ] This, and many other events afflicting the superhero community were all part of a plan by Waller and the Council of Light to have absolute power over the world—culminating in the release of seven Amazo androids in the likenesses of the Justice League, who drained and took on the powers of heroes the world over. [ 81 ]
Many members of The League are powerless!
All-In
After defeating Waller and her Amazo army, Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman confronted Green Arrow for his role in her plan. While Arrow admitted his plan was not a smart one, especially since the only other one who knew of this was the Martian Manhunter, he pointed out that the team being disbanded, thus taking out their major line of connection between heroes, was what caused everything to happen. To that end, the trio showed off their new plan starting with a new Watchtower. [ 82 ] During the Watchtower's construction, the League discovered that the Earth's sun was shrinking—being drawn, unbeknownst to them, into the Phantom Zone . [ 83 ] When the prisoners of the Phantom Zone escaped, the League fought alongside the Super-Family to recapture them on Earth [ 84 ] and on other planets. [ 85 ]
Over the next 52 days, the Watchtower was built and brand new membership cards, forged from technological, alien and magical means, were designed and handed out to everyone in the heroic metahuman community. This brand-new Justice League Unlimited would not just be a superhero team, but an outreach group, aiding in helping metahumans get used to their powers, especially as many of them had either gained new powers or had them switched in the aftermath of Waller's plans. The main room would host a blank membership card, signifying that anyone would be able to join. [ 86 ]
The Justice League Unlimited is formed!
However, the celebrations would come to an end when the card began glowing red and mystic-based metahumans began talking in reverse before Darkseid, bonded with the Spectre via the Miracle Machine appeared, demanding to know the purpose of his life. During the battle, Zatanna was able to charm Superman so that he could free the Spectre into himself. Defying his fate, Darkseid thanked his foes before he was destroyed. This prompted the League into their first mission: learn more about the new universe that has taken shape . [ 86 ]
The Justice League Unlimited's mission-specific teams were coordinated by the Red Tornado, whose artificial intelligence inhabited the Watchtower while his android body was restored; the satellite's personnel also included the "Atom Project"—the Atoms Ray Palmer and Ryan Choi —who worked to recover and restore the stolen powers scattered by the Amazos' defeat, [ 87 ] security chief Renee Montoya, the Question , Animal Man , supervisor of the Watchtower's menagerie of alien creatures, [ 88 ] armorer Bulleteer , [ 89 ] and the Challengers of the Unknown , who were tasked both with overseeing the satellite's operations and investigating anomalies resulting from Darkseid's death. [ 90 ]
The Justice League are possessed by Cyborg Superman!
The Watchtower suffered a number of technical glitches and incidents involving its menagerie, leading the League's leadership to suspect an attempt to infiltrate the satellite, which they tasked the Question with investigating. During an attack on the Watchtower's promenade by a robotic duplicate of the villain Conduit , Kenn Kawa , a member of the Challengers of the Unknown, [ 88 ] was gravely wounded by a  loosed animal, with security footage implicating Leaguer Batwoman . While he was in intensive care, another attempt on Kawa's life was made by the Kryptonian android the Eradicator , but it was foiled by the Question and her allies. [ 89 ] The Cyborg Superman , a prisoner of the League's in the Phantom Zone and the party responsible for the incidents on the Watchtower, had a mind-controlled Nightshade turn on the Question's team and free him, allowing the mechanokinetic cyborg to attack the League's members with the walls of the satellite itself. [ 91 ] The Cyborg's attempts to revenge himself on the League—first, by activating the Watchtower's self-destruct and then to send mind-controlled Leaguers to lay waste to the Earth—were ultimately foiled by the Question and her allies. [ 92 ]
The League responded to crisis points around the globe, including a sudden increase in violent rage in several world cities, [ 93 ] a ghostly knight petrifying civilians in Rome and the Egyptian Valley of Kings, [ 94 ] a rampaging group of superhumans , [ 95 ] a tentacled creature threatening a Hub City beach, [ 96 ] and a sighting in Auckland of the supervillain the Marine Marauder . A Justice League team was also dispatched to defend the iridium mines of Balhauzer, South Africa from the terrorist organization Inferno, saving local lives and destroying the terrorists' War Wheel drone weaponry. At the same time, Batman and the Blue Beetle investigated reports of child abductions by a monstrous creature in Monteverde, Costa Rica , and finding a nest of Parademon eggs in the nearby forest, called for reinforcements from the League. [ 87 ] The two heroes and Monteverde locals came under attack from the hatched Parademons, but the arriving League was able to fend them off, dispose of the nest, and rescue the missing children. The Martian Manhunter, however, troubled by the diminishment of his powers, fled from his teammates after brutally dispatching the Parademons' leader. [ 97 ]
The Justice League battles Parademons!
The League fought a massive fire in the Amazon Rainforest , which they discovered to be a magical attack by Inferno. A group of mystic Leaguers traced the spell back to its source in an attempt to uncover the terrorists' identities and motives. Concluding that Inferno aimed to seize control of the Green , the elemental force of the Earth's plant life, mission director Mister Terrific , sent Air Wave and Aquaman to call on its avatar the Swamp Thing for aid, though they arrived only in time to watch him burst into flames. [ 98 ] With the help of Tefé Holland , daughter of the previous Swamp Thing , however, Aquaman was able to restore the current avatar from the Green. Lent the magic of the JLU's spellcasters, the Swamp Thing extinguished the flames and replaced the lost vegetation with that of his own body. [ 99 ]
Terrific personally led a Justice League team to confront a force of alien Khunds testing weapons in the devastated nation of Markovia , [ 100 ] while another group provided security for the G20 summit in Australia—only to be taken to and trapped in another dimension along with the world leaders present. Back on Earth, the League fought back against attacks by Inferno on global energy production in China and Japan , while the Atom Project tracked the Martian Manhunter's lost powers to one of the missing world leaders just as they and the heroes arrived aboard the Watchtower, returning through the Phantom Zone thanks to the Flash's vibrations and Supergirl's guidance. The bearer of the Manhunter's powers was exposed as a disguised Grodd, who called on Air Wave—his unwilling agent within the League—to carry him to the safety of the headquarters of the party behind Inferno: the Legion of Doom [ 101 ] of the past, brought together by the Grodd of the present. Mister Terrific traced Air Wave's energy to the Hall of Doom, and sent a team of Leaguers in pursuit via Boom Tube , but they were struck on arrival with tachyon energy drained by the Legion from Air Wave's body, [ 102 ] displacing them to various points in history. The Legion of Doom advanced on the Watchtower, scattering the rest of League through time and securing the Omega rift—a wound in time and space left at the site of Darkseid's disappearance. While facing contemporary threats in the eras they had been sent to, the time-lost Leaguers were reconnected by Air Wave, who, as a living frequency, was the tachyon energy with which they had been infused. Seeking to redeem himself, Air Wave tried to return the Leaguers—who amplified his powers with their own—to their own time. Instead, however, the interaction of his tachyon energy with that of the Omega rift, harnessed by Grodd, sent Air Wave to the present with a new Justice League Unlimited made up of heroes plucked from throughout history. [ 103 ]
Paraphernalia
Transportation:
Justice League Teleporter
Javelin
Notes
As of the New 52, the team's official name is now just "The Justice League." The Justice League of America was an entirely different, government sponsored team of heroes working under Amanda Waller.
The League's history during the original New 52 was drastically different; originally, the team only ever consisted of the founding members, with a brief late addition of Martian Manhunter, who later left the team under violent circumstances.  After the DC Rebirth era, this history was significantly altered to resemble that of the New Earth's.
See Also
808 Appearances of Justice League (Prime Earth)
425 Images that include Justice League (Prime Earth)
Team Gallery: Justice League (Prime Earth)
Recommended Reading
Main article: Justice League Recommended Reading
Links and References
Footnotes
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #55
↑ Robin & Batman #2
↑ Batman/Santa Claus: Silent Knight Returns #5
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest 2025 Annual #1
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 New History of the DC Universe #2
↑ 6.0 6.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #9
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #23
↑ 8.0 8.1 Batman/Superman: World's Finest #32
↑ 9.0 9.1 Green Arrow (Volume 7) #7
↑ Batman vs. Robin #2
↑ Shazam! (Volume 5) #4
↑ Knight Terrors #1
↑ 13.0 13.1 Superman: Kal-El Returns Special #1
↑ FCBD Dark Crisis Special Edition #0
↑ 15.0 15.1 Batman/Superman: World's Finest #35
↑ Deathstroke Inc. #4
↑ Knight Terrors: First Blood #1
↑ Titans (Volume 4) #2
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #31
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #33
↑ Cyborg (Volume 3) #2
↑ Black Canary: Best of the Best #1
↑ Robin 2021 Annual (Volume 3) #1
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #14
↑ 25.0 25.1 Future State: Justice League #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #127
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #10
↑ Wonder Woman #792
↑ Justice League International (Volume 3) #1
↑ 30.0 30.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #8
↑ Infinite Frontier #3
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #10
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #12
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #16
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #30 – #34
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #35 – #39
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #45 – #46
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #1 – #5
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #6 – #7
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #8 – #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #15 – #19
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #26 – #31
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #34 – #38
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #39
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #6
↑ 47.0 47.1 Justice League: No Justice #1
↑ Justice League: No Justice #2
↑ Justice League: No Justice #3
↑ Justice League: No Justice #4
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #7
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #12
↑ Aquaman/Justice League: Drowned Earth #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #16
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #19
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #21
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #23
↑ 58.0 58.1 Justice League (Volume 4) #25
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #27
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #28
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #30
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #31
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #32
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #33
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #34
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #36
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #37
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #38
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #39
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #1
↑ 71.0 71.1 Justice League (Volume 4) #75
↑ Dark Crisis #1
↑ Dark Crisis #3
↑ Dark Crisis #4
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #5
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #6
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #7
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #100
↑ Green Arrow (Volume 7) #7
↑ Titans: Beast World #6
↑ Absolute Power #1
↑ Absolute Power #4
↑ Action Comics #1077
↑ Action Comics #1079
↑ Action Comics #1080
↑ 86.0 86.1 DC All In Special #1
↑ 87.0 87.1 Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #1
↑ 88.0 88.1 The Question: All Along the Watchtower #1
↑ 89.0 89.1 The Question: All Along the Watchtower #2
↑ Challengers of the Unknown (Volume 5) #1
↑ The Question: All Along the Watchtower #3
↑ The Question: All Along the Watchtower #6
↑ The Flash (Volume 6) #15
↑ Batman/Santa Claus: Silent Knight Returns #1
↑ Superman: Lex Luthor Special #1
↑ Green Lantern (Volume 7) #19
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #2
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #3
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #4
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #24
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #5
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #6
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #7

Killer Frost(disambiguation)
Caitlin Snow ( 2011 - Present ) Caitlin Snow Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Caitlin Snow ( 2011 - Present )
Killer Frost is a legacy super-villain name with ice-based powers, usually an enemy to Firestorm . The name was originally used by Crystal Frost , a Hudson University student who hated men. Her successor was Louise Lincoln , a friend who took up the mantle after her death. After the New 52 relaunch, Caitlin Snow was introduced as the first to take the name in the new timeline. A scientist at S.T.A.R. Labs , she was transformed during an attempt to save herself from H.I.V.E. agents. The name has been associated with the Injustice League , the Secret Society of Super-Villains , the Suicide Squad and the Justice League .
Killer Frost was created by Gerry Conway and Al Milgrom , first appearing in Firestorm #3 ( 1978 ).
Contents
1 Other Versions
2 Multiverse 2.1 New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Pre- Flashpoint Multiverse 2.3 Pre- Crisis Multiverse 2.4 Hypertime 2.5 Elseworlds 2.6 Possible Futures
2.1 New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Pre- Flashpoint Multiverse
2.3 Pre- Crisis Multiverse
2.4 Hypertime
2.5 Elseworlds
2.6 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 Arrowverse 3.2 Others
3.1 Arrowverse
3.2 Others
4 Other Media Titles
5 Comics
6 See Also
Other Versions
Multiverse
New 52 Multiverse
Pre- Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre- Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Possible Futures
Other Media
Arrowverse
Others
Other Media Titles
Comics
See Also
Caitlin Snow
Khione

Lex Luthor(disambiguation)
Alexander Luthor ( 2011 - Present ) Alexander Luthor Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Alexander Luthor ( 2011 - Present )
Lex Luthor is one of the most dangerously intelligent men in the world. He is a supervillain, a brilliant scientist, a billionaire industrialist and Superman 's greatest enemy. This combination makes him an extremely powerful and formidable opponent; he is ruthless, efficient and creative. In addition to his personal vendetta against the man who thwarts his every scheme, he despises the alien Man of Steel from an ideological standpoint for contradicting his human achievements.
He has always been a controversial figure in the public eye due to LexCorp 's corrupt business dealings, but he has also maintained political popularity. He has been a member of the Injustice Gang , the Injustice League , the Legion of Doom , Secret Six , the Secret Society of Super-Villains , the Justice League , and Project 7734 .
Lex Luthor was created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster and has had a lengthy publication history , first appearing in Action Comics #23 (1940).
Contents
1 Other Versions
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Hypertime 2.6 Elseworlds 2.7 Alternate Timelines 2.8 Possible Futures
2.1 The New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Hypertime
2.6 Elseworlds
2.7 Alternate Timelines
2.8 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 Superboy's Multiverse 3.2 DC Animated Universe 3.3 Smallville Multiverse 3.4 Lego Dimensions 3.5 Arrowverse 3.6 Injustice Multiverse 3.7 Tomorrowverse 3.8 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 3.9 Others
3.1 Superboy's Multiverse
3.2 DC Animated Universe
3.3 Smallville Multiverse
3.4 Lego Dimensions
3.5 Arrowverse
3.6 Injustice Multiverse
3.7 Tomorrowverse
3.8 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
3.9 Others
4 Other Media Titles
5 Comics
6 See Also
Other Versions
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
Superboy's Multiverse
DC Animated Universe
Smallville Multiverse
Lego Dimensions
Arrowverse
Injustice Multiverse
Tomorrowverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Other Media Titles
Comics
See Also
Comic series featuring Lex Luthor
Lex Luthor, Jr.
Alexandra Luthor
Alexis Luthor
President Luthor
Luthor

Martian Manhunter(disambiguation)
J'onn J'onzz ( 2011 - Present ) J'onn J'onzz Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
J'onn J'onzz ( 2011 - Present )
Martian Manhunter , also known as J'onn J'onzz and John Jones , is a superhero from the planet Mars and the last surviving member of his race. A martian holocaust killed his wife and daughter , nearly driving him mad, until he was brought to Earth in an accident caused by scientist Saul Erdel . His natural abilities include super-strength, super-speed, invulnerability, flight, shape-shifting, intangibility and telepathy. He has been a member of almost every incarnation of the Justice League of America . Although he holds great reverence for his homeworld, he has come to greatly respect his adopted world as well and protects it as his home. In his secret identity, to blend into humanity, he is a gritty hard-boiled police officer.
Martian Manhunter was created by Joseph Samachson and Joe Certa , first appearing in Detective Comics #225 ( 1955 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.5 Hypertime 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Alternate Timelines 1.8 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.5 Hypertime
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Alternate Timelines
1.8 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 DC Animated Universe 2.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse 2.3 Lego Dimensions 2.4 Arrowverse 2.5 Tomorrowverse 2.6 Others
2.1 DC Animated Universe
2.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse
2.3 Lego Dimensions
2.4 Arrowverse
2.5 Tomorrowverse
2.6 Others
3 Comics
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Teen Titans TV Multiverse
Lego Dimensions
Arrowverse
Tomorrowverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Martian Manhunter Titles

Mera (Prime Earth)
Mera Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Mera Other Aliases Aquawoman , Dead Water , Queen Mera Relatives Lammia (paternal grandmother) Ryus (father, deceased) Unnamed mother (deceased) Hila (twin sister) Arthur Curry, Sr. (husband) Andy Curry (daughter) Arthur Curry, Jr (son, deceased) [ 1 ] Orm Marius (brother-in-law) Affiliation Aquaman Family , Atlantean Royal Family , Justice League Unlimited · Formerly Justice League United , The Others Base Of Operations Amnesty Bay , Atlantis · Formerly Xebel Status Alignment Good Identity Public Identity Race Atlantean Citizenship Xebelian · Atlantean Marital Status Married Occupation Queen of Atlantis , former Xebel princess, Assassin Characteristics Gender Female Height 5' 9" Weight 160 lbs (73 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Red Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Jack Miller · Nick Cardy First Appearance Aquaman Vol 7  #1 ( November, 2011 )
Mera
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Race
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Mera is the crown princess of the underwater kingdom of Xebel , the former Queen of Atlantis and the wife of the hero Aquaman .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.2 Meeting Aquaman 1.3 The Trench 1.4 Atlantean Invasion 1.5 Return of the Dead King 1.6 Siren and the Coven 1.7 Relations Collapse 1.8 N.E.M.O. and H2.0 1.9 Arthur Usurped, Mera Justice Leaguer 1.10 Reclaiming the Throne 1.11 The Suicide Squad Strikes 1.12 Drowned Earth 1.13 Mother Shark 1.14 Amnesty,Finale: Xebel's Daughter 1.15 The Wedding 1.16 Aquamen
1.1 Early Life
1.2 Meeting Aquaman
1.3 The Trench
1.4 Atlantean Invasion
1.5 Return of the Dead King
1.6 Siren and the Coven
1.7 Relations Collapse
1.8 N.E.M.O. and H2.0
1.9 Arthur Usurped, Mera Justice Leaguer
1.10 Reclaiming the Throne
1.11 The Suicide Squad Strikes
1.12 Drowned Earth
1.13 Mother Shark
1.14 Amnesty,Finale: Xebel's Daughter
1.15 The Wedding
1.16 Aquamen
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Early Life
Mera was born to King Ryus and his wife in the kingdom of Xebel , one of the seven Atlantean kingdoms of old which had split off from the main Atlantis during the event that swallowed the continent into the deep. [ 2 ]
When Mera was young her mother died, and her father was left alone to raise her. [ 2 ] One night Ryus took Mera out of the kingdom to see their ancient enemy Atlantis up close, where she was disgusted by its beauty, believing it didn't deserve such luxury. [ 3 ] Mera was incredibly close with her grandmother - Lammia , who trained the sea beasts used in Xebelian wars. Mera was forged into the perfect warrior over years of her life by her father's chief taskmaster- Leron . [ 4 ] and was taught the royal secret of hydrokinesis .
Meeting Aquaman
As a young adult, Mera was promised to be wed to the military chief Nereus by her father. Ryus believed that vengeance should be exacted on Atlantis, and so tasked Mera with finding and assassinating the King of Atlantis, after returning from her job she was to marry Nereus. Before she left, Mera was given a Shell of Sounds by her father, this device contained a message for Mera from her mother which she was to open after making it to the surface. With fury and hatred in her heart, Mera set out to find and execute the King of Atlantis. [ 2 ]
Upon reaching the surface she asked a group of sailors where she could find the King of Atlantis. The sailors showed Mera a newspaper article of the supposed King of Atlantis - Arthur Curry/Aquaman , whom Mera learnt was a hero instead of a tyrant. Eventually she found him rescuing wounded whales and was completely taken aback by his kindness. Impressed by her hydrokinesis powers, Arthur asked Mera to join him for lunch, which she agreed to. Arthur asked her what the shell around her neck meant, making her realize she hadn't listened to her mother's message yet. In the message, her mother told Mera that she should make her own path in life instead of following the demands of her kingdom. Taking this advice to heart, Mera gave up on killing Aquaman and instead fell in love with the hero. [ 2 ]
The Trench
Mera rampaging through Amnesty Bay
Having decided to completely abandon Xebel to pursue a life on land with Arthur, Mera helped defend Amnesty Bay when it was attacked by a carnivorous underwater species called The Trench . [ 5 ]
Mera and Aquaman followed the Trench, which had taken hostages to the Marianas Trench. There they discovered the predators dying out and desperately trying to feed their children in the remnants of an Atlantean craft. Mera and Arthur saved the captives, and Aquaman reluctantly caused the Trenches' extinction by pushing a tectonic plate over the Trenches' lair to prevent further loss of human life. After this incident, Arthur and Mera adopted one of the victim's dog and named him Aquadog . [ 6 ]
Shortly after, Mera was arrested while buying dog food when she broke the arm of a man who grossly harassed her. Although she initially struggled, Mera willingly gave herself up when she heard police chatter of a hostage situation she thought she could stop. When the police got to the crime scene, Mera broke out, apprehended the criminal, and fled the scene. Later, a woman named Jennifer Posey , who had seen Mera get arrested, visited the hero and volunteered to get Mera supplies whenever necessary, as she knew what had really happened at the store and supported her. [ 7 ]
Atlantean Invasion
While Mera and Aquaman were investigating some abnormal undersea activity with Batman in Gotham City , a giant wave began to emerge and threaten the city. Arthur believed that the wave was his brother's doing, following the Atlantean War plans against the surface. [ 8 ] Mera attempted to keep the wave back but was overwhelmed by its size. Arthur went to meet his brother the Ocean Master , who ordered war upon the surface due to a U.S. submarine firing on Atlantis. Ocean Master banished Aquaman and several other members of the Justice League to the Marianas Trench for opposing him, forcing Mera and Cyborg to rescue them. After the heroes were saved, the Justice League unleashed the Trench to hold back the invading Atlantean army and stop Ocean Master's plot. [ 9 ]
With Ocean Master captured and Aquaman restored to the throne, Arthur and Mera realized that the real person behind the war was Arthur's personal advisor and mentor Vulko , who hoped that the incident would incite Aquaman to return to his rightful place in Atlantis. [ 10 ]
Return of the Dead King
Sometime after the invasion, Mera resided in Amnesty Bay, as she knew a princess of Xebel would not be welcomed in the kingdom of Atlantis. However, she was discovered and arrested for her previous assault charge. [ 11 ] Mera fled from the police but encountered a mysterious man , who used ice manipulation to knock her unconscious. [ 12 ]
Mera later woke up on a boat outside the Bermuda Triangle . Her kidnapper told her that he was the man who designed the imprisonment of Xebel, as he was Atlan the first King of Atlantis. Atlan wanted to use Mera to bypass Xebel's security. However, she escaped and attempted to warn the underwater city's inhabitants of the impending threat. Upon getting to the bottom of Xebel she was greeted by Nereus, her former fiance, who asked her where she had been all those years. [ 13 ]
Arthur and Mera flee from Xebelian soldiers
Mera was deemed a traitor by Nereus after she told him about what had happened during her time on the surface. Before Mera could be arrested, Atlan broke through the barrier and froze all the people in Xebel including Mera. [ 14 ] Aquaman soon broke Mera out of her ice prison and began fighting Atlan while Mera began freeing the soldiers of Xebel. However, despite all this, the Xebelians sided with Atlan anyway as they saw him as their true king, forcing Aquaman and Mera to leave Xebel. [ 15 ] Arthur and Mera attempted to warn Atlantis of the villainous king's return, but Aquaman was sent into a coma during a coincidental separate attack by the Scavenger . With their hero incapacitated and without a leader, Atlantis fell to Atlan. [ 16 ]
Mera was imprisoned for six months, often going days without water as punishment for her escape attempts. Eventually Arthur returned and, together, he and Mera led a revolt and freed all of the imprisoned Atlanteans. Arthur forced Atlan into a lava bed where the old king melted away. With their master defeated, Nereus and the Xebelians fled back to Xebel. As the threat was averted, Mera returned to Amnesty Bay to live her life of isolation but soon decided to rule alongside her partner, believing she could rise above the prejudice. [ 17 ]
However, as she expected, she faced opposition. She would later survive an assassination attempt by xenophobic assailants loyal to Ocean Master and eventually brought them to justice. [ 18 ]
Siren and the Coven
Mera held captive by her sister
While investigating a collection of mysterious structures that appeared to kill anything they touched, Mera was kidnapped and held hostage by her sister Hila A.K.A. the Siren , and the Coven of Thule , who were behind the structures' sudden appearances. The Coven were Atlantean warlocks who split Atlantis into two dimensions, where they could prepare for an invasion. Siren stole Mera's appearance using magic and ruled Atlantis for several months while she was captured, weakening it for the invasion. [ 19 ]
However, eventually, Mera was able to break free and defeat her sister with the help of Garth , Tula , Swatt and Murk. With the help of their allies Mera and Arthur were able to destroy the Coven, ending their invasion.
Relations Collapse
Mera as Aquawoman
Some time afterwards, Arthur asked Mera to be the face of the political campaign between Atlantis and the Surface World, which she accepted. Mera decided to fully embrace her new role as she donned the same Atlantean Chainmail as Arthur and began calling herself " Aquawoman ", [ 20 ] but this moniker was short lived. [ 21 ]
While Wally West , the original Kid Flash , was escaping the Speed Force in what could be described as his "rebirth" , Mera was brought to Paradise Island where Arthur proposed to her and the two became engaged. [ 22 ]
Knowing of their engagement, Aquaman's arch nemesis Black Manta attempted to kill Mera to hurt Arthur. [ 23 ] Arthur was able to defeat Manta, however the entire situation caused Spindrift - the facility where their fight was held - to lose its status as an embassy. Due to this Mera and Aquaman traveled to the White House to discuss the problem with the President . [ 24 ] Upon arrival, Arthur was arrested due to an American ship called the Pontchartrain being attacked by a group of "Atlanteans".
As tensions grew worse between Atlantis and the Surface World, Mera broke Arthur out of prison against his wishes. [ 25 ] The pair fought off an entire U.S. battalion until Superman arrived on behalf of the government to stop them. Aquaman and Mera retreated into the water, but not before Superman encouraged them to fix the mess that had been created. [ 26 ]
N.E.M.O. and H2.0
Arthur Usurped , Mera Justice Leaguer
At some point, it became clear that the people of Atlantis were displeased with Arthur and were planning a revolution to replace him with Corum Rath . [ 27 ] After the coup started, Mera witnessed Arthur being seemingly killed by Atlantean soldiers [ 28 ] and, for a period of time after this, went into a phase of mourning at the Curry lighthouse.
However this was short lived as Tula told her Arthur was possibly alive. [ 29 ] Upon hearing this, Mera traveled to Atlantis where she used her powers for days, attempting to break through the Crown of Thorns , the invisible, magical barrier that had been placed around Atlantis. [ 30 ]
Mera and the Justice League
Mera, while attempting to shatter the dome keeping her from her fiancé, was confronted by the Justice League due to the massive tidal waves she had unintentionally caused by her attacking the Crown of Thorns. After a lengthy battle between herself and the team, she eventually calmed down after hearing that her actions threatened millions of civilians. [ 31 ] Impressed by the extent of Mera's hydrokinetic abilities and her excellent skills in combat, Batman invited Mera to join the League as a temporary replacement for Aquaman until they could find a way to help him. [ 31 ]
While working as a member of the League, Mera had a number of adventures on the surface world. She joined them in battle with Shirak , and also faced the time-displaced descendants of the Justice League. [ 32 ] This undertaking led to Mera's encounter with her daughter from a possible future, Serenity . [ 33 ] The descendants of the League traveled back to the past in order to prevent the uprising of The Sovereign who had ravaged their futures. [ 34 ]
Returning to rescuing Aquaman from the man who usurped their kingdom, Mera approached Garth - the former Aqualad - and pleaded with him to use his potent magical abilities against the Crown of Thorns. Knowing what was at stake, Garth agreed to help Mera bring down the Crown. Mera successfully infiltrated Atlantis using a magic necklace Garth gave her, but the the item had an unexpected side effect that permanently removed her ability to breathe underwater, forcing her to flee to the surface. [ 35 ]
During the invasion of the Dark Knights of the Dark Multiverse , Mera and the rest of Atlantis were changed into fish monsters known as Dead Water by the Drowned . She was returned to normal when the Dark Knights were defeated by the Justice League, with Aquaman, alive, among them.
Reclaiming the Throne
Mera survived another assassination attempted, this time by the villainous Eel . The assassin was hired by Corum Rath , the current ruler of Atlantis, who was threatened by the former queen's attempt to depose him. [ 36 ]
Mera and Ocean Master, teaming up
Mera also lost a fight to Ocean Master , having returned from his multi-year absence and declared that instead he would depose Corum Rath and take his rightful place as Atlantis' ruler. [ 37 ] After some level-headed discussion, the enemies decided to team up against their common foe. [ 4 ]
Mera and Orm worked together to convince Nereus , Mera's ex-fiance and head of the Xebelian military, to aid them in deposing Rath. Nereus reluctantly agreed to help, but only if Orm was assured to get the throne, since he did not trust Mera. In an attempt to show her worth through combat, Mera challenged Orm to a fight in a Xebelian arena where, by the skin of her teeth, using everything she had, managed to best the Ocean Master and become the true heir to the Atlantean throne. [ 38 ]
In the months since Mera's departure Atlantis grew worse. Corum Rath had been corrupted by the Abyssal Dark , a foul magic which helped build Atlantis. The dark transformed Corum into a hideous creature hell-bent on the destruction of Atlantis as he believed Atlantis could only be great again if it were reborn in the ashes of tradition. Aquaman, working as a freedom fighter, led a last resort attack against the mad king in which his trident was shattered by the dictator. [ 39 ]
When all seemed lost Mera arrived with the war hosts of Xebel to even the fight against Rath and his forces. In the final fight, Rath was defeated and his magic corrupted, turning him into a fish. Taking pity on him, Aquaman used his powers to commanded him to leave Atlantis and continue his new life among the other fish. [ 39 ]
While celebrating their victory. All of a sudden the ground began to shake and Atlantis began to rise. Arthur told Mera that during his fight with the Dark Multiverse invaders he had worn a set of the reality-altering Tenth Metal armor and made a wish. He had wished for a place that existed between the two worlds of land and sea, a place where he could live his life happily. Arthur's wish had been granted in the worst possible way, Atlantis had risen out of the water and onto the land. [ 39 ]
The Suicide Squad Strikes
Mera during her coronation
Sitting directly in the middle of Europe and the United States, Atlantis was immediately viewed with caution by the surface dwellers, many nations preparing for war. Determined to prove that Atlantis meant no harm, Mera invited the Secretary of the United States to attend her coronation as Queen. After her coronation, Queen Mera spent no time sitting idly in her throne waiting for her problems to sort themselves out, immediately scheduling a private meeting with U.S. ambassadors in order to quell the fear and distrust felt by many on the surface world. She also tasked many of her labourers to rebuild the parts of Atlantis destroyed during the civil war. [ 40 ]
During the coronation, a secret penal black-ops team known as the Suicide Squad was sent by American xenophobic extremist Admiral Meddinghouse to destroy the kingdom. Fortunately, Aquaman caught wind of this and led his former Undercurrent forces against the Squad. [ 41 ] Disgusted that a member of the U.S. Government was attempting to destroy her city, Mera rose the water levels around America's coasts, threatening to sink America into the deep if they did not back down. [ 42 ] Fortunately Aquaman was able to stop the Squad and, in the aftermath, America and Atlantis returned to their fragile state of alliance. Admiral Meddinghouse was swiftly arrested on charges of high treason for sanctioning the mission. [ 43 ]
Drowned Earth
Mera is attacked by the sea-changed
Sometime after Mera's coronation as queen, the waters began to rise once again. However anyone who touched the water was turned into an aggressive sea beast hellbent on destruction. Mera evacuated the civilians into the upper part of the city while Murk and the Drift attempted to hold off the infected. Ondine informed Mera that the oceans were rising all across the globe, with both humans and Atlanteans facing extinction.
After comforting some civilians, Mera contacted the Hall of Justice to see who of Earth's heroes remained alive. After a moment Batman answered her call and told her that Arthur had gone missing during a mission to the Arctic six hours prior and that the current crisis was probably alien in nature. Mera held back the water from Atlantis as much as she could but failed to contain it all, and most of Atlantis' citizens were transformed into sea beasts. [ 44 ] Out of options and time, Mera headed to the highest spire of Atlantis where Orm was kept locked away. Breaking through the wall of his cell she asked him for help, when he agreed she gave the Ocean Master his trident back and the two formed another uneasy alliance. [ 44 ]
Mera and Orm began fighting their way outside of the city, eventually making it to the memorial to the dead kings of Atlantis. There, a man named Captain Gall introduced himself as an alien sea god and one of the three leaders of the invasion known as the Triumvirate of Sea Gods . Gall instantly overwhelmed the pair, forcing Orm to transform into one of the sea-changed before Mera escaped. [ 45 ]
Mera traveled across the globe until she found Superman and the Flash being chased by sea-changed heroes. After saving the pair from the clutches of Swamp Thing , she used a magical crown she acquired to teleport them to the location of an Atlantean weapon that could stop the invasion. Discovering they were too late, Mera, Flash and Superman were met by Black Manta, who revealed that it was him and his allies in the Legion of Doom who had summoned the Triumvirate to Earth. [ 3 ]
Mother Shark
When Mother Shark restores Arthur Curry's memories, it is revealed that Arthur actually survived the alien invasion and returned to Mera. However, they kept it a secret from the rest of Atlantis. Mera stops them from being romantic to talk about the politics of Atlantis and how the Widowhood wants her to marry. Arthur confesses his love for Mera once again, again proposing they get married, but Mera is hesitant with all the drama they've endured. However, she then reveals she's pregnant.
Arthur affirms that he loves both Mera and their unborn child but, afraid that he won't be able to give his child the life it deserves, asks to go home and think. Mera, unhappy that she and her love don't seem to be on the same page, loses control, "kills" Arthur, and is later found by the Widowhood and Atlantean guards. [ 46 ]
Amnesty,Finale: Xebel's Daughter
As Mera's pregnancy progressed, Arthur returned to life and Amnesty Bay, however, he did not go to Mera nor she to him. Arthur's nemesis Black Manta destroyed an ancient Atlantean historical site to draw Mera to the surface, where she and Aquaman met and wordlessly reconciled. Manta attacked the pair with Mecha Manta , provided by Lex Luthor . Mera and Arthur's new sidekick Jackson Hyde destroyed Mecha Manta with a giant electrified hydrokinetic construct of her, but the huge amounts of power she was forced to use put her in a coma. She was rushed to an Atlantean hospital and gave birth shortly afterwards to a baby girl, who was named Andy . [ 47 ]
The Wedding
Mera reawakens after 10 months in a coma. With the ruse of a fake wedding to Vulko she calls to Atlantis the leaders of the 7 underwater kingdoms. Prior to the wedding, she has the entire widowhood arrested. Once all 7 kingdoms are assembled, to their surprise, Mera announces that she was dissolving the Atlantean monarchy and that she intended to hand power to the people. Orm attempts to take power for himself, however, Orm and his forces are stopped by Aquaman, assisted by the Justice league and the Sea gods. Following this, Mera finally embraces her daughter, as she and Arthur settle down in Amnesty Bay. Soon afterwards Mera and Arthur marry in the presence of their family and friends, in what was originally planned as a welcome back party for her. [ 48 ]
Following the abolition of the monarchy, Arthur and Mera intended to hold themselves apart from Atlantis to allow the city to govern itself, but they were forced to intervene when the Frost King's forces attacked the city during what was intended to be their honeymoon. Arthur journeyed into the city's heating vents to meet with the Fire Tolls who lived in the tunnels below Atlantis, hoping they could be an ally against the Frost King. Originally Mera agreed to stay behind to guard Andy but quickly followed him, arriving in time to save Arthur from a Fire Troll with a hydrokinetic attack. The Trolls were in awe of this and swore loyalty to her. With her army of Fire Trolls, Mera and Arthur defeated the ice creatures attacking Atlantis. [ 49 ]
Aquamen
After abdicating the throne, Mera devoted herself to promoting democracy within Xebel and encouraging unification with Atlantis. She had some success but was unable to get the Xebelian Guard to end the conscription of children. [ 50 ] She also helped Jackson's mother Lucia , a refugee from Xebel, sneak Xebelians out of the city and secretly settled them in Amnesty Bay without Arthur's knowledge.
Mera was scheduled to speak at a peace conference in Xebel while Arthur was away on a mission to Mars . Jackson was framed for a terrorist attack and Mera helped him escape the city. [ 51 ] Mera attended the conference as planned, which was attacked by a Xebelian terrorist group called the Xebelian Liberation Front. She and the other delegates were saved by Jackson, Lucia and Lucia's secret daughter Delilah , but Lucia was critically injured and left in a coma. Mera gave an impassioned speech saying that they owed it to future generations to try to make a better world. [ 50 ]
Orm attacked the United Nations Building but was foiled and captured by Arthur and Jackson. [ 52 ] Shortly afterward, Jackson called Mera and told her that Arthur was secretly working with Black Manta and he needed to speak to the entire Aquaman Family . He also asked her to bring an expert in Atlantean biology, so brought Stephen Shin in to consult. Jackson had brought the dead body of a man that Black Manta had supposedly killed and subsequently autopsied in Paris , and told them that when he had tried to arrest Manta for murder, Arthur had stopped him. Garth and Tula believed that Arthur was trying to trick Black Manta somehow, but Mera admitted that Arthur had been acting strangely ever since he returned from Mars.
Doctor Shin examined the body and determined that the man had been born Atlantean but had been modified to be half-human, allowing him to survive on land without dehydrating. He also had a transciever installed in his brain, and they realised that the dead man had been some kind of deep-cover Atlantean agent. Suddenly Tula received a call from the surface that a house in Ohio had blown up and carbing had been left in thr ground. The carvings were anicent Atlantean glyphs which read "Atlantis remembers" and the date of an oil spil which killed seven Atlanteans. [ 53 ]
Mera realised there was more going on than they realised and went to Mars to speak with Frankenstein , who Arthur claimed to have been with while he was away, but Frankenstein told her that Arhut had been on Mars for only three hourse and left again, despite being away from home for days. When she returned home, one of her agents in the Atlantean Guard told her that Arthur and Manta had been spotted on the outskirts of Atlantis. She also learned that Jackson had gone to Orm's cell and tortured him for information, believing that he was behind the Atlantean sleeper agents. Mera was concerned about Jackson's unusually aggressive and reckless behavior since Lucia was hurt, and called him to try and talk about it, but he would only tell her that  he was in Gotham chasing down a lead.
She tracked down Arthur and Manta and demanded to know what was going on. Arthur admitted the truth to her: during his first reig  many years ago, an Atlantean general named Mako took him to a hidden vault full of weapons developed for a potential war against the surface, and revealed that he had placed sleeper agents on the surface to retaliate in case the surface ever attacked Atlantis. Arthur had believed he shut the program down, but the sleepers had somehow been activated anyway. [ 54 ]
Arthur met with the entire Aquaman Family and told them the truth about everything, including that he was working with Black Manta to stop the sleepers. During the meeting Arthur revealed that he had lost some of his memories when he died and they had only just started returning, and Tula realised that Mera had been the one who killed him. Arthur told them all that he and Black Manta planned to use Manta;s Orichalcum trident to deactivate the sleepers, but to do so they would need a broadcast tower. Mera brought in Mister Terrific to design the tower, which she and Jackson would create from the waters of the Atlantic Ocean itself. [ 55 ]
Mera and Jackson created the tower and began to broadcast the signal, although even with the two of them holding up such a huge construct was a great strain. Black Manta accidentally crashed into the tower while battling Orm's henchman Scavenger and knocked the trident out of position. This forced Jackson to carry the trident back to the top of the tower and hold it in place, while Mera held up the tower alone. She eventually could no longer do it and the tower collapsed, but they managed to send the deactivation signal. [ 56 ]
With the threat of the sleepers neutralised, Arthur gave Mera control over General Mako's vault and told her she could use or destroy the weapons inside as she saw fit. Mera was still angry with him for keeping secrets and lying to her, but before they could talk about it Arthur was called away by the Justice League on an emergency. He left, promising they would talk when he got back. In the vault, Mera found a gauntlet which she discovered allowed her to use her hydrokinesis to heal.
The surface governments began debating a response to the attacks by the sleepers. Mera listened in on the meeting with hidden bugs, but just as they were about to vote to attack Atlantis, the world leaders all simultaneously received reports that the entire Justice League , including Arthur, were dead . Mera went to the dock outside the Curry Lighthouse to grieve, and Jackson came to comfort her. [ 57 ]
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Atlantean Physiology : The Atlanteans are offshoots of humanity that are biologically adapted to the deep ocean environment. All their abilities are by-products of their bodies being adapted to survive unprotected in the tremendous pressures of the ocean depths. Amphibian Nature : Like all Atlanteans Mera is able to breathe on land and while submerged in water due to a pair of gills hidden behind her ears. She can also talk unhindered while completely submerged. [ 58 ] Enhanced Senses Enhanced Vision : Mera is able to see perfectly in the pitch blackness of the deep ocean. Enhanced Hearing : Mera's hearing is far greater than any human's. Superhuman Durability : Mera can survive the crushing pressures of the deep ocean, which applies 1086 pounds of pressure per square inch. [ 59 ] Heat Resistance : Mera can survive in the immensely hot conditions deep below the surface of the Earth. [ 49 ] Superhuman Reflexes : As an Atlantean Mera's reflexes are far quicker then any ordinary humans. Mera was able to dodge a bolt of lightning at point blank range, meaning she can process events happening at 220,000,000 miles per hour and react to them accordingly. [ 60 ] Superhuman Speed : Mera can swim at speeds that match her partner's and possibly surpasses them. [ 61 ] At a casual swim Mera has been reported to move at 575 miles-per-hour according to fellow hero Animal Man . [ 62 ] At her fastest Mera can travel at a speed greater then Mach 5, this means Mera is capable of swimming faster then 3836 miles-per-hour or 6174 kilometers-per-hour. [ 63 ] Superhuman Stamina Superhuman Agility Superhuman Strength : Mera's strikes crash like tidal waves. [ 64 ] When fighting off the Trench she displayed that she could crack their subhuman skulls with just a single strike. [ 65 ] While above water she was able to snap a man's arm just by adding some pressure to it. [ 7 ] Mera possesses considerable superhuman strength (carrying capacity of at least 70 tons). She can easily leap hundreds of yards, and effortlessly rip through metal barriers. [ 66 ] Super-Leaping : Like Aquaman, Mera can leap incredible distances due to her powerful leg muscles and dense bone structure. She once leapt out of the ocean and into a moving plane meaning she can jump at least 2000 meters into the air. [ 64 ]
Amphibian Nature : Like all Atlanteans Mera is able to breathe on land and while submerged in water due to a pair of gills hidden behind her ears. She can also talk unhindered while completely submerged. [ 58 ]
Enhanced Senses Enhanced Vision : Mera is able to see perfectly in the pitch blackness of the deep ocean. Enhanced Hearing : Mera's hearing is far greater than any human's.
Enhanced Vision : Mera is able to see perfectly in the pitch blackness of the deep ocean.
Enhanced Hearing : Mera's hearing is far greater than any human's.
Superhuman Durability : Mera can survive the crushing pressures of the deep ocean, which applies 1086 pounds of pressure per square inch. [ 59 ] Heat Resistance : Mera can survive in the immensely hot conditions deep below the surface of the Earth. [ 49 ]
Heat Resistance : Mera can survive in the immensely hot conditions deep below the surface of the Earth. [ 49 ]
Superhuman Reflexes : As an Atlantean Mera's reflexes are far quicker then any ordinary humans. Mera was able to dodge a bolt of lightning at point blank range, meaning she can process events happening at 220,000,000 miles per hour and react to them accordingly. [ 60 ]
Superhuman Speed : Mera can swim at speeds that match her partner's and possibly surpasses them. [ 61 ] At a casual swim Mera has been reported to move at 575 miles-per-hour according to fellow hero Animal Man . [ 62 ] At her fastest Mera can travel at a speed greater then Mach 5, this means Mera is capable of swimming faster then 3836 miles-per-hour or 6174 kilometers-per-hour. [ 63 ]
Superhuman Stamina
Superhuman Agility
Superhuman Strength : Mera's strikes crash like tidal waves. [ 64 ] When fighting off the Trench she displayed that she could crack their subhuman skulls with just a single strike. [ 65 ] While above water she was able to snap a man's arm just by adding some pressure to it. [ 7 ] Mera possesses considerable superhuman strength (carrying capacity of at least 70 tons). She can easily leap hundreds of yards, and effortlessly rip through metal barriers. [ 66 ] Super-Leaping : Like Aquaman, Mera can leap incredible distances due to her powerful leg muscles and dense bone structure. She once leapt out of the ocean and into a moving plane meaning she can jump at least 2000 meters into the air. [ 64 ]
Super-Leaping : Like Aquaman, Mera can leap incredible distances due to her powerful leg muscles and dense bone structure. She once leapt out of the ocean and into a moving plane meaning she can jump at least 2000 meters into the air. [ 64 ]
Mera using her Hydrokinesis
Hydrokinesis : Mera can control water due to her being royalty within Xebel. She often uses her aquakinesis to drain a person of their bodily fluids, quickly disabling them. [ 60 ] She can even draw upon water sources such as the Tear of Extinction , a divine elixir of death. [ 67 ] She cannot control snow or ice, and she does need a source to pull water from, as she cannot create it. [ 12 ] [ 7 ] Mera's aquakinesis was stolen by Task Force VII during Absolute Power , and when the stolen superpowers were released the aquakinesis went into Arthur rather than returning to her. [ 68 ] Liquid Construct Creation : Mera has very fine control over water and can cause it to take any shape or form she chooses, [ 5 ] such as hands, piranhas and people. [ 2 ] Toxikinesis (Formerly) : When The Drowned altered her into a Dead Water hybrid, she gained the ability to transmute water into debilitating poison which could even disorient Aquaman. [ 69 ]
Liquid Construct Creation : Mera has very fine control over water and can cause it to take any shape or form she chooses, [ 5 ] such as hands, piranhas and people. [ 2 ]
Toxikinesis (Formerly) : When The Drowned altered her into a Dead Water hybrid, she gained the ability to transmute water into debilitating poison which could even disorient Aquaman. [ 69 ]
Abilities
Deception : Mera was trained in the art of deception in order to kill Aquaman. [ 2 ]
Diving
Master Combatant : Mera was trained by her father to murder the King of Atlantis, and was vigorously trained since childhood order to prepare herself. [ 7 ] She has fought Black Manta to a standstill, [ 63 ] and bested the Ocean Master in combat despite being in a weakened state. [ 60 ]
Genius Level Intellect : According to Arthur, Mera posseses a high-level of intelligence and considers her a genius. [ 70 ] Mechanical Engineering : Mera has constructed Atlantis 's central core and its supercomputer in her spare time, which is able to scan the entire planet and the surrounding space. [ 70 ] Computer Operation : Mera's skills also allows her to program and navigate her own advanced supercomputer. [ 70 ] Political Science : Mera was temporarily the figure head of surface world and Atlantis peace negotiations. [ 71 ] Historiography : As a princess of Xebel, Mera was taught the traditions and lore of Xebel from an early age to prepare her for her role in the Xebelian monarchy. [ 4 ] She also knows many Atlantean and surface tales such as the legend of King Arthur . [ 45 ]
Mechanical Engineering : Mera has constructed Atlantis 's central core and its supercomputer in her spare time, which is able to scan the entire planet and the surrounding space. [ 70 ]
Computer Operation : Mera's skills also allows her to program and navigate her own advanced supercomputer. [ 70 ]
Political Science : Mera was temporarily the figure head of surface world and Atlantis peace negotiations. [ 71 ]
Historiography : As a princess of Xebel, Mera was taught the traditions and lore of Xebel from an early age to prepare her for her role in the Xebelian monarchy. [ 4 ] She also knows many Atlantean and surface tales such as the legend of King Arthur . [ 45 ]
Leadership : Mera has been deemed a great enough leader by the elders of Atlantis that she was chosen to rule the nation after the downfall of Corum Rath. [ 72 ]
Swimming : Mera has lived underwater her whole life. As such she is an expert in swimming and has taken to it like humans take to walking. [ 65 ]
Swordsmanship [ 73 ] [ 74 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Shell of Sounds : A relic that can contain recorded memories and dialog from the user, in order to convey their memories to future generations. [ 2 ]
Gauntlet : Mera discovered a mysterious gauntlet in a vault of experimental weapons. [ 57 ] Healing : The gauntlet allows Mera to use her hydrokinesis to heal severe injuries. [ 57 ]
Healing : The gauntlet allows Mera to use her hydrokinesis to heal severe injuries. [ 57 ]
Weapons
Mera's Trident : Mera often wields her own trident during combat.
Orm's Trident (Formerly)
Clarion Tear of Extinction (Formerly) : Mera formerly wielded a fragment of the Tear of Extinction, capable of killing Gods. She has channeled this water into a scabbard and the Clarion so she can use it as a sword. [ 67 ]
Tear of Extinction (Formerly) : Mera formerly wielded a fragment of the Tear of Extinction, capable of killing Gods. She has channeled this water into a scabbard and the Clarion so she can use it as a sword. [ 67 ]
Notes
Mera was created by Jack Miller and Nick Cardy , first appearing  in Aquaman #11 . However, Mera first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Aquaman (Volume 7) #1 by Geoff Johns and Ivan Reis .
Trivia
Mera is often mistaken by the public for a mermaid . [ 36 ]
Mera is publicly known as "Aquawoman", "Atlantean Mera" and "Mermaid Queen". [ 75 ]
Mera received public acclaim for joining of the Justice League was in spite of shaky relations with Atlantis during her tenure as Queen. [ 36 ]
Recommended Reading
Aquaman Recommended Reading
Mera: Queen of Atlantis
Related
255 Appearances of Mera (Prime Earth)
168 Images featuring Mera (Prime Earth)
26 Quotations by or about Mera (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Mera (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ DC Power 2024 #1
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 Secret Origins (Volume 3) #5
↑ 3.0 3.1 Justice League (Volume 4) #11
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 Mera: Queen of Atlantis #3
↑ 5.0 5.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #2
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #4
↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 Aquaman (Volume 7) #6
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #15
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #16
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #17
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #17
↑ 12.0 12.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #18
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #19
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #21
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #22
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #23
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #25
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #29 - Aquaman (Volume 7) #32
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #45
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #49
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #52
↑ DCU: Rebirth #1
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #1
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #2
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #4
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #6
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #23
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #24
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #25
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #26
↑ 31.0 31.1 Justice League (Volume 3) #24
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #25
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #26
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #27
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #30
↑ 36.0 36.1 36.2 Mera: Queen of Atlantis #1
↑ Mera: Queen of Atlantis #2
↑ Mera: Queen of Atlantis #5
↑ 39.0 39.1 39.2 Aquaman (Volume 8) #38
↑ Suicide Squad (Volume 5) #45
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #39
↑ Suicide Squad (Volume 5) #46
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #40
↑ 44.0 44.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #41
↑ 45.0 45.1 Justice League/Aquaman: Drowned Earth #1
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #49
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #57
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #65
↑ 49.0 49.1 Aquaman (Volume 8) #66
↑ 50.0 50.1 Aquaman: The Becoming #6
↑ Aquaman: The Becoming #2
↑ Aquamen #1
↑ Aquamen #2
↑ Aquamen #3
↑ Aquamen #4
↑ Aquamen #5
↑ 57.0 57.1 57.2 Aquamen #6
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #14
↑ Mariana Trench
↑ 60.0 60.1 60.2 Mera: Queen of Atlantis #6
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #10
↑ Justice League United #11
↑ 63.0 63.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #11
↑ 64.0 64.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #12
↑ 65.0 65.1 Aquaman (Volume 7) #3
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #1
↑ 67.0 67.1 Justice League (Volume 4) #12
↑ Aquaman (Volume 9) #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #32
↑ 70.0 70.1 70.2 Aquaman & The Flash: Voidsong #2
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #48
↑ Aquaman (Volume 8) #33
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #12
↑ Aquaman (Volume 7) #49
This character is or was an ally of Aquaman , and a member of the Aqua-Family and/or its supporting cast. This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Aquaman Supporting Cast " category. See also: Aquaman Villains .
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.

Mister Freeze(disambiguation)
Victor Fries ( 2011 - Present ) Victor Fries Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Victor Fries ( 2011 - Present )
Mister Freeze is a supervillain enemy of Batman who fights using cold-themed weapons. Formerly a scientist working in cryogenics, Victor Fries had dedicated his life to finding a cure for his wife Nora Fries ' terminal illness. Following a horrible lab accident, he became dependent on sub-zero temperatures to survive and began using his experimental inventions to commit crimes in efforts to fund his research. This also requires an exo-skeleton that keeps him constantly freezing. Losing touch with humanity over time, he eventually turns into a colder and more sadistic psychopath. In his early career, he used the name Mister Zero . He has been a member of the Injustice League and the Secret Society of Super-Villains .
Mister Freeze was created by Dave Wood and Sheldon Moldoff , first appearing in Batman #121 ( 1959 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 New 52 multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Crisis multiverse 1.4 Pre-Crisis multiverse 1.5 Hypertime 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Alternate timelines 1.8 Possible futures
1.1 New 52 multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Crisis multiverse
1.4 Pre-Crisis multiverse
1.5 Hypertime
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Alternate timelines
1.8 Possible futures
2 Other media 2.1 Lego Dimensions 2.2 Arrowverse 2.3 Tomorrowverse 2.4 Others
2.1 Lego Dimensions
2.2 Arrowverse
2.3 Tomorrowverse
2.4 Others
3 Comics
4 Other media titles
5 See Also
Multiverse
New 52 multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Crisis multiverse
Pre-Crisis multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate timelines
Possible futures
Other media
Lego Dimensions
Arrowverse
Tomorrowverse
Others
Comics
Other media titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Mister Freeze
Mister Zero

Nightwing(disambiguation)
Current Former Dick Grayson ( 2011 - Present ) Dick Grayson Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes Dick Grayson ( 1985 - 2011 ) Dick Grayson Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Current
Former
Dick Grayson ( 2011 - Present )
Dick Grayson ( 1985 - 2011 )
Nightwing is a superhero legacy name associated with the planet Krypton and the Batman Family , usually working alongside a sidekick and partner named Flamebird . Originally it was an alias used by a mysterious Kryptonian figure, and later adopted by Superman and Van-Zee in the bottle city of Kandor . Later the name was adopted by the human vigilante Dick Grayson , taking it after he had graduated from the position of Batman 's sidekick Robin . Dick Grayson was the son of John and Mary Grayson. The family was a circus act that performed at Haly's Circus. One night Dick sees his parents murdered by a mafia boss who wants revenge on the circus's owner, Haly, and coincidentally Bruce Wayne, (a.k.a. Batman) witnesses the terrifying act and offers to take the young orphan by his side remembering that he was once like Dick in his current state. Dick had keen detective skills already and soon figured out that the billionaire playboy Bruce Wayne was the Dark Knight himself. Bruce agreed to take Dick under his wing as the first Robin out of many. Many years passed and Dick became too old to stay under Batman's care and soon took a superhero name of his own, Nightwing! The Nightwing title was also held by Chris Kent , General Zod 's son who lived on New Krypton .
Nightwing was created by Edmond Hamilton and Curt Swan , first appearing in Superman #158 . ( 1963 ) The Dick Grayson version of the character was reinvented by Marv Wolfman and George Pérez , first appearing in Tales of the Teen Titans #44 . ( 1984 )
Contents
1 Others
2 Nightwings
3 Multiverse 3.1 Possible Futures
3.1 Possible Futures
4 Other Media
5 Comics
Others
Nightwings
Multiverse
Possible Futures
Other Media
Comics

Penguin(disambiguation)
Oswald Cobblepot ( 2011 - Present ) Oswald Cobblepot Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Oswald Cobblepot ( 2011 - Present )
The Penguin is Oswald Cobblepot , a Gotham City crimelord with a deformed physical appearance who is a frequent enemy of Batman . Despite the penguin -like appearance that led to his nickname, he is a ruthlessly cunning criminal genius operating out of his nightclub the Iceberg Lounge . Having dealt with mockery of his stature from an early age, he has dedicated himself to inspiring respect and fear through his exploits. His standard weapon is an umbrella with different gadgets lethal and otherwise hidden inside of it. He has been a member of the Injustice League , Secret Society of Super-Villains and Suicide Squad .
The Penguin was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane , first appearing in Detective Comics #58 (1941).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Post-Crisis 1.4 Pre-Crisis 1.5 Elseworlds 1.6 Alternate timelines 1.7 Possible futures
1.1 The New 52
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Post-Crisis
1.4 Pre-Crisis
1.5 Elseworlds
1.6 Alternate timelines
1.7 Possible futures
2 Other media 2.1 Lego Dimensions 2.2 Others
2.1 Lego Dimensions
2.2 Others
3 Comics
4 Other media titles
Multiverse
The New 52
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Alternate timelines
Possible futures
Other media
Lego Dimensions
Others
Comics
Other media titles

Plastic Man(disambiguation)
Patrick O'Brian ( 2011 - Present ) Patrick O'Brian Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Patrick O'Brian ( 2011 - Present )
Plastic Man is a superhero whose unique completely malleable body chemistry allows him to stretch to great lengths and contort himself into any position imaginable. Originally a criminal nicknamed "Eel" O'Brian , an accident in a chemical factory gave him his ability and he reformed to fight against crime. Woozy Winks is his bumbling best friend and sidekick. Despite being one of the most powerful entities on the planet because of the limitless nature of his powers, he has a care-free and humorous attitude towards life, leading many to not take him seriously. He has been a member of the Justice League , the All-Star Squadron and the Freedom Fighters .
Plastic Man was created by Jack Cole for Quality Comics , first appearing in Police Comics #1 ( 1941 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.5 Hypertime 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Alternate Timelines 1.8 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.5 Hypertime
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Alternate Timelines
1.8 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 The Brave and the Bold Multiverse 2.2 Lego Dimensions 2.3 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 2.4 Others
2.1 The Brave and the Bold Multiverse
2.2 Lego Dimensions
2.3 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
2.4 Others
3 Comics
4 Other Media Titles
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
The Brave and the Bold Multiverse
Lego Dimensions
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Plastic Man Titles
Other Media Titles

Poison Ivy(disambiguation)
Pamela Isley ( 2011 - Present ) Pamela Isley Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Pamela Isley ( 2011 - Present )
Poison Ivy is a supervillain and eco-terrorist with the ability to control plants , usually an antagonist to Batman . Originally, Pamela Isley was a botanist from a wealthy family, working underneath with professor Jason Woodrue until an accident gave her powers and turned her insane. Protecting the sanctity and supremacy of nature at all costs, she sadistically lashes out against humanity as a blight upon the planet . Although much of her life has been spent imprisoned in Arkham Asylum for the criminally insane, she has also held down a S.T.A.R. Labs position. Eventually, Isley and Harley Quinn began dating. She has been a member of the Gotham City Sirens , the Injustice League , Injustice Gang , the Secret Society of Super-Villains , and the Suicide Squad .
Poison Ivy was created by Robert Kanigher and Sheldon Moldoff , first appearing in Batman #181 ( 1966 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.5 Hypertime 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Alternate Timelines 1.8 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.5 Hypertime
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Alternate Timelines
1.8 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 DC Animated Universe 2.2 Lego Dimensions 2.3 Arrowverse 2.4 Injustice Multiverse 2.5 Tomorrowverse 2.6 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 2.7 Others
2.1 DC Animated Universe
2.2 Lego Dimensions
2.3 Arrowverse
2.4 Injustice Multiverse
2.5 Tomorrowverse
2.6 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
2.7 Others
3 Comics
4 See Also
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Lego Dimensions
Arrowverse
Injustice Multiverse
Tomorrowverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also
Comic series featuring Poison Ivy
Ivy

Ra's al Ghul (Prime Earth)
Ra's al Ghul Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Unknown Main Alias Ra's al Ghul Other Aliases Demon's Head , The Demon Relatives Rúh al Ghul (mother, deceased), Unnamed maternal uncle, [ 1 ] Sora (wife, deceased) [ 2 ] Talia al Ghul (daughter), Nyssa Raatko (daughter), Dusan al Ghul (son, deceased), Damian Wayne (grandson), Mara al Ghul (granddaughter), Honor Guest (clone), Raze (clone, deceased), Smoke (clone, deceased), The Help (son) Affiliation Council of Immortals , Formerly League of Assassins , League of Shadows , League of Lazarus , Legion of Doom , Orgham Family , Untitled Base Of Operations 'Eth Alth'eban · Nanda Parbat · Nepal Status Alignment Bad Identity Secret Identity Citizenship Egyptian Marital Status Widowed Occupation Cult Leader , Eco-Terrorist Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 5" Weight 215 lbs (98 kg) Eyes Green Hair Black · Grey Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Dennis O'Neil · Neal Adams · Julius Schwartz First Appearance Batman Incorporated Vol 2  #2 ( August, 2012 )
Ra's al Ghul
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Ra's al Ghul is the founder of the League of Assassins , an organization of deadly warriors that he used to achieve his goal of ridding the world of evil. The League's violent methods have made him a sworn enemy of the Batman . Through the continued use of a Lazarus Pit , Ra's has been able to live for thousands of years.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Years 1.2 Modern Age 1.3 Deal with the All-Caste 1.4 Red Hood and the Outlaws 1.5 Deathstroke 1.6 League of Shadows 1.7 League of Lazarus 1.8 Shadow War 1.9 Flashpoint Beyond
1.1 Early Years
1.2 Modern Age
1.3 Deal with the All-Caste
1.4 Red Hood and the Outlaws
1.5 Deathstroke
1.6 League of Shadows
1.7 League of Lazarus
1.8 Shadow War
1.9 Flashpoint Beyond
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Early Years
Ra's al Ghul was originally a physician somewhere in the East. At some point the Sultan killed his wife, and in response Ra's razed the city ground, save for the palace tower.
Ra's al Ghul's first mention in recorded history is from 1285, during the crusades. A rumor had spread of a powerful force in the east, a demon in a dark tower. He was believed to be a creature who could crush a civilization in the palm of his hand, and was so feared none would speak his true name. They said death had no power over him, so in order to show there was only one master of death, Prince Gerhardt, riding under the command of Pope Martin IV , travelled to the tower with his crusaders and demanded entry. A servant of Ra's opened the door and told the knights to follow him. As they travelled down a staircase in the tower, every knight except Gerhardt was assassinated. At the bottom, the servant and Gerhardt are in front of a Lazarus Pit , and the servant then leaves and closes the door. Ra's starts laughing and Gerhardt asks "Are you  man? Or a fiend from hell?!" Ra's, rising out of the pit, says "I am both. I am neither. I am Ra's al Ghul." He let Gerhardt live to tell the story, in turn causing the west to fear him. To know of his existence and power, but not able to understand what it meant. He became a myth and a legend, and it kept the west away as he built his empire.
As his legend, and fear of him, grew in the west, he took his loyal subjects and travelled east. Along the way he learned much about the arts of death, doing things such as fighting an army of Samurai after they insisted he bow. He also learned of the secrets of the Lazarus pits, including the Well of Sins.
But that was just the beginning, and he then decided he was ready to make his mark on the world and build it as his own. As he travelled, he collected the most dangerous men who ever walked the earth as his disciples. With them he formed the League of Assassins , with the purpose of tearing the world apart and rebuilding it as something far greater.
In 1666, he started the Great Fire of London . In 1721 he started the opium trade with the East India Company (in real life, this led to Opium Wars. Presumably the same occurred in DC). In 1832 he saw to spreading cholera to the new world, causing the cholera epidemic in New York. In 1917 he trained Gavrilo Princip to assassinate Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , which led to World War I . He also had a hand in many other tragedies throughout the years, such as tearing down societies and destabilizing governments, all with the goal of causing humanity's downfall so he could recreate the world. [ 3 ]
Modern Age
Deal with the All-Caste
Ra's al Ghul approached an organization called the All-Caste , to create a working relationship with the League of Assassins. Through the All Caste, the League gained a connection with the Untitled , an enemy organization of the All-Caste. As part of their deal, the League asked the All-Caste to train Jason Todd . Ra's eventually betrayed the All-Caste, and shortly after, the All-Caste was killed off by the Untitled.
Red Hood and the Outlaws
Deathstroke
When Deathstroke 's daughter, Rose , was on the verge of death, Ra's made an offer to Slade, telling him that if he swore his allegiance to the League of Assassins, he would heal his daughter. Slade reluctantly agreed to the terms, only to find out Ra's had tricked him, forcing Rose, along with Slade's son Jericho , to also swear their allegiance to the League. [ 4 ]
League of Shadows
Concerned with mankind's course of destroying itself, Ra's created a splinter group of the League of Assassins, called the League of Shadows , and put Lady Shiva in charge. After Shiva learned of Ra's' true purpose for the Shadows, she turned them against him and used them for her own path of destruction and power. When she used the Shadows to attack Gotham, Ra's met with Batman, seemingly trying to help him bring the Shadows down, although it was revealed he had made a deal with Shiva, in exchange for Batman. [ 5 ]
League of Lazarus
Shadow War
Flashpoint Beyond
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Lazarus Enhancement : Ra's al Ghul has lived for several centuries thanks to his use of Lazarus Pits, which he has used countless times to replenish his aged, injured, or even dead body. The Pits are partially made up of the chemical compound Dionesium , which has the supernatural ability to revive dead tissue, bringing those who encounter it back to life. [ 6 ] As a side effect of exposure to the pit, Ra's temporarily endures a "Lazarus Fever". This causes him to break out into uncontrollable rage, temporarily enhancing his physical attributes. [ 7 ] Immortality : Ra's has acquired an extended lifespan through the use of the Lazarus Pit. His unrestricted access to the Pit has rendered him nearly immortal. Ra's is currently over seven hundred years old. [ 8 ]
Immortality : Ra's has acquired an extended lifespan through the use of the Lazarus Pit. His unrestricted access to the Pit has rendered him nearly immortal. Ra's is currently over seven hundred years old. [ 8 ]
Magic : Though rarely displayed, Ra's is able to use magic spells for various purposes. Using his mother 's spell book, Ra's was able to create a binding spell that imprisoned Mother Soul and the Lazarus Demon to a remote island . [ 9 ] He was later taught by Giovanni Zatara to invoke magic by speaking backwards. He has used this type of magic to erase memories from Batman's mind on multiple instances. [ 5 ] [ 10 ] Necromancy : Ra's has been shown capable of utilizing magic to summon the dead. On one occasion Ra's used a spell to resurrect Solomon Grundy . When the Lazarus Pit's effect began to fade, Ra's was able to absorb Grundy's immortality through a spell. [ 11 ] Resurrection [ 11 ] Power Absorption [ 11 ] Telepathy : Ra's can make people forget memories of his choice by saying their name backwards and then saying "Tegrof". [ 5 ] [ 10 ]
Necromancy : Ra's has been shown capable of utilizing magic to summon the dead. On one occasion Ra's used a spell to resurrect Solomon Grundy . When the Lazarus Pit's effect began to fade, Ra's was able to absorb Grundy's immortality through a spell. [ 11 ] Resurrection [ 11 ] Power Absorption [ 11 ]
Resurrection [ 11 ]
Power Absorption [ 11 ]
Telepathy : Ra's can make people forget memories of his choice by saying their name backwards and then saying "Tegrof". [ 5 ] [ 10 ]
Abilities
Genius Level Intellect : Due to his greatly extended lifespan, Ra's has learned from the Earth's greatest minds for hundreds of years, granting him him the intellect of a genius. [ 12 ] Aviation [ 13 ] Deception : Ra's is greatly skilled in the art of deception. [ 14 ] Escapology [ 5 ] Eidetic Memory : Ra's knows the "Memory Palace Technique", a strategy of memory enhancement that allows him to treat and store memories like a museum. This is how he is able retain the vast knowledge obtained throughout his lifetime. Ra's also taught this technique to Bruce Wayne. [ 15 ] Historiography Leadership : Ra's is a highly capable leader, as he has successfully led the League of Assassins for centuries. Multilingualism : Ra's speaks several languages, including ancient Akkadian. [ 16 ] Occultism : Ra's possesses vast knowledge and understanding of magic and concepts of mystical nature. [ 9 ] He knows of ancient potions and techniques for healing the body, which he taught to Bruce Wayne . [ 17 ] He also has extensive knowledge of the arcane Lazarus Pits and their progenitor, the Well of Sins. [ 3 ] [ 16 ] Ra's also knew about the existence of Themyscira and how to find the island, which normally cannot be done without guidance from an Amazon . [ 18 ] Pedagogy : Over his lifetime, Ra's has tutored countless pupils in a wide variety of arts, including a young Bruce Wayne and Minhkhoa Khan in their journey to become heroes. [ 17 ] Science [ 9 ] Alchemy [ 4 ] Medicine : As a young man, Ra's served as a sultan's physician. [ 9 ] Tactical Analysis : Ra's is a brilliant tactician, honing his tactical skills throughout the multiple centuries of his extended lifespan.
Aviation [ 13 ]
Deception : Ra's is greatly skilled in the art of deception. [ 14 ]
Escapology [ 5 ]
Eidetic Memory : Ra's knows the "Memory Palace Technique", a strategy of memory enhancement that allows him to treat and store memories like a museum. This is how he is able retain the vast knowledge obtained throughout his lifetime. Ra's also taught this technique to Bruce Wayne. [ 15 ]
Historiography
Leadership : Ra's is a highly capable leader, as he has successfully led the League of Assassins for centuries.
Multilingualism : Ra's speaks several languages, including ancient Akkadian. [ 16 ]
Occultism : Ra's possesses vast knowledge and understanding of magic and concepts of mystical nature. [ 9 ] He knows of ancient potions and techniques for healing the body, which he taught to Bruce Wayne . [ 17 ] He also has extensive knowledge of the arcane Lazarus Pits and their progenitor, the Well of Sins. [ 3 ] [ 16 ] Ra's also knew about the existence of Themyscira and how to find the island, which normally cannot be done without guidance from an Amazon . [ 18 ]
Pedagogy : Over his lifetime, Ra's has tutored countless pupils in a wide variety of arts, including a young Bruce Wayne and Minhkhoa Khan in their journey to become heroes. [ 17 ]
Science [ 9 ] Alchemy [ 4 ] Medicine : As a young man, Ra's served as a sultan's physician. [ 9 ]
Alchemy [ 4 ]
Medicine : As a young man, Ra's served as a sultan's physician. [ 9 ]
Tactical Analysis : Ra's is a brilliant tactician, honing his tactical skills throughout the multiple centuries of his extended lifespan.
Martial Arts : Ra's near-immortal life has allowed him to learn countless fighting styles and combat techniques that have been lost to time. [ 19 ] His training makes him rival even Batman in combat. [ 3 ] Ra's was also one of young Bruce Wayne's many martial arts tutors on his journey to become Batman. [ 20 ] Ra's was skilled enough to defeat Deathstroke in combat, despite Slade's superior strength and speed. [ 14 ] Dhritishastra : Ra's has managed to learn the basic forms of Dhritishastra, an Indian martial art developed by Vandal Savage , so complex that it takes an entire lifetime to learn. [ 21 ]
Dhritishastra : Ra's has managed to learn the basic forms of Dhritishastra, an Indian martial art developed by Vandal Savage , so complex that it takes an entire lifetime to learn. [ 21 ]
Weaponry : Throughout his years, Ra's has displayed his mastery of weapons in combat, favoring a sword, although he has undoubtedly mastered many other forms of weaponry. Swordsmanship : Ra's is a master swordsman, honing his skills over centuries of training and combat. He stated that he had trained the sword masters of the first ever fencing academies on the planet. [ 3 ] Firearms : Although not his preferred weapon of choice, Ra's has displayed the ability to handle himself well with firearms. [ 22 ] Throwing : Ra's is a deadly marksman and can hurl projectile weapons such as knives, with precision. [ 23 ] Gadgetry [ 24 ]
Swordsmanship : Ra's is a master swordsman, honing his skills over centuries of training and combat. He stated that he had trained the sword masters of the first ever fencing academies on the planet. [ 3 ]
Firearms : Although not his preferred weapon of choice, Ra's has displayed the ability to handle himself well with firearms. [ 22 ]
Throwing : Ra's is a deadly marksman and can hurl projectile weapons such as knives, with precision. [ 23 ]
Gadgetry [ 24 ]
Equestrianism [ 25 ]
Fishing [ 12 ]
Intimidation [ 3 ]
Meditation [ 12 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Paralytic Toxin : Ra's carries a paralytic developed three hundred years ago from an extinct cousin of the poppy flower. [ 5 ]
Ultraviolet Light Grenade : Ra's has used U.V. light grenades on occasion, which replicate the effects of a red sun, making them harmful to Kryptonians. [ 24 ]
Transportation
Demon Wing : Ra's owns an aircraft called the Demon Wing, similar to the Batplane . [ 13 ]
Weapons
Various Broadswords
Synthetic Kryptonite Sword [ 13 ]
Notes
Ra's al Ghul was created by Dennis O'Neil , Neal Adams , and Julius Schwartz , first appearing  in Batman #232 . However, Ra's al Ghul first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Red Hood and the Outlaws #24 by James Tynion IV and Julius Gopez .
Trivia
Ra's al Ghul's Lazarus Pit is composed of Dionesium , the same chemical compound that gave Vandal Savage his immortality and the Joker his limited healing ability. [ 6 ] However, it was revealed that there is also magical properties to the Lazarus Pit. [ 9 ]
After bathing in the Well of Sins , the very first and purest form of the Lazarus Pit, Ra's temporarily gained mystical powers. The power however proved to be too much for Ra's to control, and he was eventually stripped of it by Jason Todd. [ 26 ]
Related
Appearances of Ra's al Ghul (Prime Earth)
Images featuring Ra's al Ghul (Prime Earth)
Quotations by or about Ra's al Ghul (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Ra's al Ghul (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Robin (Volume 3) #10
↑ Robin (Volume 3) #9
↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #23.3: Ra's al Ghul and the League of Assassins
↑ 4.0 4.1 Deathstroke (Volume 3) #19
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 Detective Comics #954
↑ 6.0 6.1 Batman (Volume 2) #38
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #2
↑ Batman: One Bad Day - Ra's al Ghul #1
↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 9.4 Robin (Volume 3) #10
↑ 10.0 10.1 Detective Comics #961
↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 DC: The Doomed and the Damned #1
↑ 12.0 12.1 12.2 Robin (Volume 3) #4
↑ 13.0 13.1 13.2 Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #7
↑ 14.0 14.1 Deathstroke (Volume 3) #20
↑ Detective Comics #985
↑ 16.0 16.1 Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #32
↑ 17.0 17.1 Batman: The Knight #9
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #30
↑ Batman: The Knight #10
↑ Batman: Killing Time #3
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #17
↑ Robin Rises: Omega #1
↑ Trinity (Volume 2) #12
↑ 24.0 24.1 Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #8
↑ Batman and the Outsiders (Volume 3) #11
↑ Red Hood and the Outlaws #27
League of Assassins member This character is or was a member of the League of Assassins , a international organization of the world's greatest killers, operating both for hire and their own agenda, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " League of Assassins members " category.
Batman Villain(s) This character, team or organization, has been primarily an enemy of the Batman , or the Batman Family as a whole. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Batman Villains ."
This character has been primarily an enemy of the Teen Titans , the Titans , or any of the other various Titans incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Titans Villains " category.
Robin Villain(s) This character, team or organization, has been primarily an enemy of any of the young heroes who have been known as Robin. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Robin villains ."
This character, team or organization, is or was primarily an enemy of Outsiders . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Outsiders Villains category."
Legion of Doom member This character is or was a member of the Legion of Doom , a team of supervillains called together for the purpose of conquering the world and defeating the Super Friends, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Legion of Doom members " category.

Raven (Prime Earth)
Raven Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Raven Main Alias Raven Other Aliases Rachel Roth · Doctor Hate Relatives Trigon (father) Arella (mother) Alice Williams (aunt) Jack Williams (uncle) Belial (half-brother) Suge (half-brother, deceased) Ruskoff (half-brother) Trilogy (half-brother) Bertok-Raaf (cousin) Mary-Beth Williams (cousin) Billy Williams (cousin) Jessica Williams (cousin) Etrigan (nephew) Merlin (nephew) Affiliation Night Force , Titans , Justice League Unlimited · Formerly Teen Titans , Trigon , Sons of Trigon , Justice League: Team Wonder , Justice League Dark Base Of Operations Hall of Justice , Washington, D.C. · formerly Titans Tower III , San Francisco , California · Azarath Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Marital Status Single Occupation Sorceress · former Teacher Characteristics Gender Female Height 5' 6" Weight 110 lbs (50 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Black Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Marv Wolfman · George Pérez First Appearance Teen Titans Vol 4  #1 ( November, 2011 )
Raven
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Raven is a member of the Titans and the daughter of the demon Trigon .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Return of Trigon 1.2.2 Forever Evil 1.2.3 Trial of Kid Flash 1.2.4 The Culling 1.2.5 The White Carnival 1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Teen Titans 1.3.2 Daughter of Darkness 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Titans Academy 1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors 1.5.2 Beast World 1.5.3 Dark-Winged Queen
1.1 Origin
1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Return of Trigon 1.2.2 Forever Evil 1.2.3 Trial of Kid Flash 1.2.4 The Culling 1.2.5 The White Carnival
1.2.1 Return of Trigon
1.2.2 Forever Evil
1.2.3 Trial of Kid Flash
1.2.4 The Culling
1.2.5 The White Carnival
1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Teen Titans 1.3.2 Daughter of Darkness
1.3.1 Teen Titans
1.3.2 Daughter of Darkness
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Titans Academy
1.4.1 Titans Academy
1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors 1.5.2 Beast World 1.5.3 Dark-Winged Queen
1.5.1 Knight Terrors
1.5.2 Beast World
1.5.3 Dark-Winged Queen
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Transportation
3.1 Transportation
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Origin
The woman later known as Raven was born of the demon Trigon , a demonic entity who had conquered many worlds and fathered many sons ; however this was his first and (so far) only daughter. Trigon murdered the women who birthed his sons, however he allowed his daughter's mother Arella to live, believing that his daughter needed to be raised by a human in order to help her reshape the under-realms in his image. Afraid of what Trigon had in store for their daughter, Raven's mother took her daughter and fled to the dimension of Azarath , which was beyond Trigon's reach, where she named the child Rachel . Over time, the monks of that realm trained Rachel to control her powers and overcome her father's influence. When Trigon finally found her again, Rachel fled from Azarath to Earth in order to protect her mother and teachers. [ 1 ] Eventually she was found by the immortal Phantom Stranger on Trigon's behalf. [ 2 ] When she returned to Trigon's realm time itself flowed differently, and it was revealed that Trigon was impressed by her natural abilities, allowing her to have free will and shape her own destiny. He gave her a seat at his throne, and renamed her Raven. [ 3 ]
New 52
Return of Trigon
Raven and the Titans
Raven returned to Earth to interfere with the fight between Trigon and the Teen Titans . She recruited Beast Boy , who had been left for dead in the rubble of an unknown facility. There Raven used her empathy powers to mind-control Beast Boy, making him her thrall. With Beast Boy in tow, Raven teleported to the middle of a battle between the Teen Titans and the psychic villain Psimon . Using Beast Boy she was able to knock out Psimon and cause his defeat. [ 4 ] Meanwhile Trigon's three sons, Belial, Ruskoff, and Suge, assaulted the Teen Titans in an attempt to take Raven back. [ 5 ] Raven, Beast Boy, and the Titans defeated them, but Trigon himself appeared again and took control of the Titans save for Raven, Beast Boy, and Red Robin . [ 6 ] When the manipulated Titans attacked, Raven had Beast Boy distract them and Trigon long enough for Red Robin to cut through Trigon's eyes with his wings on his costume. Trigon, pulling out the wings from his eyes, complimented Red Robin before suddenly disappearing. [ 7 ]
Soon after, a woman and a group of suited men came through a portal, informing everyone that they would take Psimon into custody and make the incident appear as if it had never happened. When questioned about the police officers Psimon had killed, the woman revealed it had been a hallucination by Trigon, so therefore it had never happened. Raven and Beast Boy were re-accepted into the Teen Titans. While apart of the team Raven made things awkward for them by revealing all the relationships Red Robin had when under Trigon's control. Raven went into her room, leaving the awkward situation behind. There, she summoned her father, saying, "Father, I am one of them. Your plan worked perfectly," leaving questions on what side she was really playing for. [ 8 ] Meanwhile, Red Robin called Raven aside, telling her that if something happened to him, the team would look to her to lead them. [ 9 ]
Forever Evil
When all of Earth's greatest heroes were gone and the Crime Syndicate of America had taken over the world, the Teen Titans attempted to challenge the Crime Syndicate. However, they were easily overpowered by Johnny Quick and Atomica and were then flung into the time stream. [ 10 ] While the Titans were constantly flung through time, Raven was sent a few thousand years back in time. There, she was challenged by Etrigan the Demon , who recognized her as Trigon's daughter and tried to kill her. Raven was saved by Wonder Girl , who suggested that the way to stop Raven's powers, since she was born and raised in a world between worlds, was to manipulate the energy within the time stream. [ 11 ] Raven succeeded in anchoring the Titans with her soul-self, teleporting them through time. The Titans arrived 20 years into the future, where Jonathan Lane Kent had massacred most of Earth's superheroes, leaving only a few, including Beast Boy, now calling himself Beast Man, and Rose Wilson . Kon-El and Jon battled, and Kon triumphed. Kon was then sent elsewhere by an unknown power , and a severely injured Jon was swapped unknowingly as Superboy by Beast Boy and Rose Wilson. [ 12 ]
Trial of Kid Flash
While traveling through time Raven and the Titans arrived to the 30th century, where they found out that their teammate Kid Flash was actually a rebel leader and war criminal, named Bar Torr. [ 13 ] It was during this time that Raven deduced that the Superboy with them was actually Jon, and she helped send him back to the present time so that he could find a cure for his deteriorating body condition. [ 14 ] After leaving Kid Flash and Solstice in the future, Raven and the others returned to their original time where she discovered that her connection with Trigon had been severed. [ 15 ]
The Culling
Following an attack by the villain Grimm, the Titans planned a final attack on Harvest 's new colony . Raven was reluctant to join because of her past actions, but after Bunker told her that everybody deserved a second chance, Raven changed her mind. In the colony, the Teen Titans were surprised to find that everyone is returned to normal, and even the victims of the Culling had been restored to life. Raven played a crucial role by finding out Harvest's scheme to extract all the metagenes to create a massive DNA strand for his usage. Raven destroyed it using her soul-self, leaving Harvest to finally be defeated. [ 16 ]
The White Carnival
After the Titans separated, Raven found out that her mother had a sister living in San Francisco . She decided to visit her aunt so that she could learn more about her mother's side of the family. Raven was surprised to discover that her Aunt Alice and her family are dedicated Christians. During her stay, Raven attended Madison High School where she cast a spell on several students, in order to have a group of friends and fit in. She soon came across one student that was seemingly under the control of a mysterious white orb which had begun to grow near a carnival. The orb fed on the souls of the young, and Raven did her best to try and stop it. After several attempts, she failed, until her aunt and the citizens of San Francisco gave her the strength that she needed to defeat the orb and wipe everyone's memories of the event. [ 17 ]
Rebirth
Teen Titans
The new Titans
Some time after leaving the Teen Titans, Raven set out to learn more about her family and her father Trigon. During this time she lived in a museum, until one day she found herself knocked unconscious. When Raven came to, she found herself in an unknown location alongside several other young superheroes including her former teammate Beast Boy, the new Kid Flash , and Starfire . The identity of her captor was revealed to be Robin who explained that he had kidnapped them in order to recruit them to his new Teen Titans team. [ 18 ] He went on to explain that he needed each of their unique skills in order to take down his grandfather Ra's al Ghul and the League of Assassins . [ 19 ] She is targeted by one called Plague.
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Daughter of Darkness
Raven who is now living in San Francisco with her aunt Alice and her aunt's family and is attending Madison High School is once again faced with her father, Trigon , who is now trying to return to Earth using Raven as his gateway and wants to use Arella to breed an army of his children, meanwhile Baron Winters also gets involved, while trying to preserve the balance between good and evil. Her father attacks Raven, trying to take control, while she deals with another one of Trigon's threats, 2MorrowTek and she also battles with a new faceless girl who she doesn't know. After that Raven continues to investigate the new threat, while Baron Winters watches from Wintersgate Manor where he predicts that Raven will die and that she must die in order to preserve the balance between good and evil.
Afterwards Raven meets with the faceless girl once more, but this time the girl is killed by soldiers before Raven could find out what's going on, and she then briefly meets Baron Winters, by entering Wintersgate Manor through the fireplace, but he then sends her to the past, more specifically in 1906, San Francisco in the middle of the great earthquake in order to escape her. Raven helps as many people as she can while she is stuck in the past, and she then manages to return to the present where she faces Baron Winters in Wintersgate Manor , she then reads Baron's mind and uncovers that the faceless girls are actually her sisters, she finds out that in each world Trigon conquered he tried to breed the perfect child, a warrior who would be his true heir, but instead the children either died in childbirth or survived and ended up being monsters instead of warriors. Baron then escapes Raven once more, and she returns to San Francisco and attends her friend, Teri's grandmother's funeral, when Arella approaches Raven. Later Raven, her mother and her aunt have an argument about whether Raven should go with her mother home, or stay with aunt, the argument is interrupted when Raven's sisters attack. Raven and her mother manage to escape, but are soon captured and meanwhile Baron realizes that someone is taking over Wintersgate Manor but does not know who, or what. As Raven and Arella try to escape 2MorrowTek and figure out what they want with them, Winters learns about the Shadow Riders, who he then suspects might be the next big threat. Meanwhile Raven and her mother aren't able to escape 2MorrowTek and the scientists whose goal is to find out what is so special about Arella that she was able to give birth to Raven, Trigon's one and only daughter of darkness so that he could have more children and eventually create an army of his children capable of destroying the Universe. The moment of which Raven is supposed to die is getting closer, the gateway through which Trigon starts to come to Earth is opening, and just when Raven was almost dead, one of her sisters, Violet merges with Raven and gives the strength she needs to overcome Trigon and survive, in the end she and Trigon's other unsuccessful children help Raven beat Trigon once more, and so Raven and her mother return to San Francisco, while Baron Winters intends to create a new Night Force, by recruiting people with magical abilities and continues to investigate the Shadow Riders.
Infinite Frontier
Titans Academy
Raven, along with her teammates Nightwing , Changeling , Cyborg , Donna Troy and Starfire formed an academy in honor of Roy Harper to train new Titans. [ 20 ] Raven and Beast Boy tried to help Billy Batson with his powers as they were malfunctioning. [ 21 ] During a date with Gar, Raven had a vision of a possible future that worried her. [ 22 ] In the academy Raven took Dane as her ward and taught him how to control his powers. [ 23 ] She later went to the Underrealm to rescue Shazam and Dane from Neron after both kids went there to find the Rock of Eternity . [ 24 ] She took Dane back to the academy while Billy stayed to guard the Rock of Eternity. [ 25 ]
The homecoming party at the academy saw the return of her friends Roy Harper and Garth to the Titans. When five students disappeared, the Titans found out that they were taken by Psimon to create a new Fearsome Five team, but the villain was killed by Red X , who escaped along with Dane. [ 26 ] When Dane began to fulfil his destiny of transforming into the demon Nevermore, Red X destroyed the Titans Academy building while trying to "protect" him. [ 27 ] Unfortunately, both Gar and Cyborg were buried under the wreckage, leaving them in critical condition, just like what Raven saw on her vision. [ 28 ] Despite saving Dane, Raven was distaught by how Gar and Vic had no chances at recovering, so she allowed two of her students, Cybruh and Gregg , to save the two by merging them. [ 29 ] Due to their new condition, Gar believed that him and Raven couldn't continue their relationship with him as Cybeast. [ 30 ] Nevertheless, Raven managed to cast a spell so that Gar and Victor would still be seen as two separate entities to everyone else despite the great strain on her powers that would take. [ 31 ]
Dawn of DC
After a battle against Neron, Raven sensed a part of her soul was missing. [ 32 ]
Knight Terrors
When Insomnia attacked, she helped the Teen Titans navigated the nightmare within Titans Tower from the real world. However, she was tired out and succumbed to the nightmare, joining her teammates in the nightmare world. She helped "Joanne" recognize her identity as the Titans Tower, which allowed them all to break out of the nightmare into the real world. The Teen Titans then flew off to find Dick and Wally. [ 33 ]
Beast World
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dark-Winged Queen
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Human-Demon Hybrid : As the daughter of the inter-dimensional demon Trigon and a mortal, Raven possesses immense power due to her demonic heritage. [ 34 ] It was noted by her father Trigon that she only uses a small potential of her power, and if she lets out her full inner demon, she may reach near-infinite power. Astral Projection : Through the use of her Soul-Self, Raven can project her consciousness for therapeutic purposes (to aid in her own meditation, or to help calm an agitated ally), or for offensive attacks, rendering her enemies unconscious. Soul-Self : Raven can manifest her "Soul-Self" through astral projection. It normally takes the form of either her human shape or a giant raven. Darkness Manipulation : Raven can generate, shape and manipulate darkness from her Soul Self and project it forward to attack her enemies. [ 34 ] Energy Construct Creation : Raven can create constructs out of darkness Flight : Raven can levitate off the ground and fly, without visible projection of her dark energy as is shown when she uses telekinesis. Chronokinesis : Using her Soul-Self in conjunction with her demonic abilities she can force herself through the time-stream and even bring passengers. [ 35 ] Intangibility : Using her dark powers and abilities, she melts into walls and floors, sometimes in the form of a giant black raven (which is the form her Soul-Self usually takes on). Teleportation : Raven can convert her physical body into her Soul-Self and carry or teleport herself and others across vast distances. [ 34 ] Hell Fire Manipulation : Raven can generate and manipulate the cursed flames of Hell. The color of the flames varies, but may be black, blue, white, red, or the normal shades of fire, although probably in some way noticeably unusual. Sometimes, the flames are not generated, but instead summoned from the depths of Hell itself. Magic : Due to her demonic and mystical heritage, Raven can generate and control magical and mystical forces at will. She has stated that she is vastly more powerful than even a demon overlord like Neron can ever hope to be, which was proved soon after as the demon himself quickly surrendered when faced with the breath of her power. [ 36 ] Dimensional Travel : Raven can travel to other planes of existence like Hell . [ 37 ] Force Field : Raven can generate a powerful force field capable of easily resisting even attacks from the likes of Neron . [ 38 ] Chronokinesis : Raven is mentioned to being able to stop time. [ 39 ] Electrokinesis : She can control electricity. Pyrokinesis : She can control and project fire. Eldritch Blast : She can unleash magic blasts. Size Alteration : Rachel can alternate her size and stature at will if she so chooses, [ 40 ] growing to match the height and menace of The Specter and even her father on several occasions, enlarging herself to gigantic proportions when the situation calls for it. [ 41 ] Psychokinesis : Using a combination of inherent magic and her Soul-Self, Raven can psionically manipulate, arrange and alter astral forces for a variety of purposes. Influence minds, generate energy and manipulate matter at the atomic level. [ 34 ] Psionics : Raven is able to read thoughts, project and broadcast her own thoughts, as well as scan and alter the memories of others. [ 34 ] Empathy : Raven can sense the feelings of others with no filter. She constantly feels all the emotions of others and must learn to control them or they will overwhelm her. [ 34 ] Emotion Negation : She can also use her empathic abilities to steal emotions from others, rendering them emotionally "numb". Empathic Healing : She can absorb the pain of others into her own body in order to rapidly heal others from any physical injuries, as well as heal herself by going into a trance of emotional calm. Empathic Precognition : She can receive precognitive flashes of the future when exposed to extreme emotion. [ 42 ] Psychic Link : By using her empathic-based powers, Raven can enter another person's mind allowing her to see, feel and hear what they encounter.
Astral Projection : Through the use of her Soul-Self, Raven can project her consciousness for therapeutic purposes (to aid in her own meditation, or to help calm an agitated ally), or for offensive attacks, rendering her enemies unconscious. Soul-Self : Raven can manifest her "Soul-Self" through astral projection. It normally takes the form of either her human shape or a giant raven. Darkness Manipulation : Raven can generate, shape and manipulate darkness from her Soul Self and project it forward to attack her enemies. [ 34 ] Energy Construct Creation : Raven can create constructs out of darkness Flight : Raven can levitate off the ground and fly, without visible projection of her dark energy as is shown when she uses telekinesis. Chronokinesis : Using her Soul-Self in conjunction with her demonic abilities she can force herself through the time-stream and even bring passengers. [ 35 ] Intangibility : Using her dark powers and abilities, she melts into walls and floors, sometimes in the form of a giant black raven (which is the form her Soul-Self usually takes on). Teleportation : Raven can convert her physical body into her Soul-Self and carry or teleport herself and others across vast distances. [ 34 ] Hell Fire Manipulation : Raven can generate and manipulate the cursed flames of Hell. The color of the flames varies, but may be black, blue, white, red, or the normal shades of fire, although probably in some way noticeably unusual. Sometimes, the flames are not generated, but instead summoned from the depths of Hell itself.
Soul-Self : Raven can manifest her "Soul-Self" through astral projection. It normally takes the form of either her human shape or a giant raven. Darkness Manipulation : Raven can generate, shape and manipulate darkness from her Soul Self and project it forward to attack her enemies. [ 34 ] Energy Construct Creation : Raven can create constructs out of darkness Flight : Raven can levitate off the ground and fly, without visible projection of her dark energy as is shown when she uses telekinesis. Chronokinesis : Using her Soul-Self in conjunction with her demonic abilities she can force herself through the time-stream and even bring passengers. [ 35 ] Intangibility : Using her dark powers and abilities, she melts into walls and floors, sometimes in the form of a giant black raven (which is the form her Soul-Self usually takes on). Teleportation : Raven can convert her physical body into her Soul-Self and carry or teleport herself and others across vast distances. [ 34 ] Hell Fire Manipulation : Raven can generate and manipulate the cursed flames of Hell. The color of the flames varies, but may be black, blue, white, red, or the normal shades of fire, although probably in some way noticeably unusual. Sometimes, the flames are not generated, but instead summoned from the depths of Hell itself.
Darkness Manipulation : Raven can generate, shape and manipulate darkness from her Soul Self and project it forward to attack her enemies. [ 34 ] Energy Construct Creation : Raven can create constructs out of darkness
Energy Construct Creation : Raven can create constructs out of darkness
Flight : Raven can levitate off the ground and fly, without visible projection of her dark energy as is shown when she uses telekinesis.
Chronokinesis : Using her Soul-Self in conjunction with her demonic abilities she can force herself through the time-stream and even bring passengers. [ 35 ]
Intangibility : Using her dark powers and abilities, she melts into walls and floors, sometimes in the form of a giant black raven (which is the form her Soul-Self usually takes on).
Teleportation : Raven can convert her physical body into her Soul-Self and carry or teleport herself and others across vast distances. [ 34 ]
Hell Fire Manipulation : Raven can generate and manipulate the cursed flames of Hell. The color of the flames varies, but may be black, blue, white, red, or the normal shades of fire, although probably in some way noticeably unusual. Sometimes, the flames are not generated, but instead summoned from the depths of Hell itself.
Magic : Due to her demonic and mystical heritage, Raven can generate and control magical and mystical forces at will. She has stated that she is vastly more powerful than even a demon overlord like Neron can ever hope to be, which was proved soon after as the demon himself quickly surrendered when faced with the breath of her power. [ 36 ] Dimensional Travel : Raven can travel to other planes of existence like Hell . [ 37 ] Force Field : Raven can generate a powerful force field capable of easily resisting even attacks from the likes of Neron . [ 38 ] Chronokinesis : Raven is mentioned to being able to stop time. [ 39 ] Electrokinesis : She can control electricity. Pyrokinesis : She can control and project fire. Eldritch Blast : She can unleash magic blasts. Size Alteration : Rachel can alternate her size and stature at will if she so chooses, [ 40 ] growing to match the height and menace of The Specter and even her father on several occasions, enlarging herself to gigantic proportions when the situation calls for it. [ 41 ]
Dimensional Travel : Raven can travel to other planes of existence like Hell . [ 37 ]
Force Field : Raven can generate a powerful force field capable of easily resisting even attacks from the likes of Neron . [ 38 ]
Chronokinesis : Raven is mentioned to being able to stop time. [ 39 ]
Electrokinesis : She can control electricity.
Pyrokinesis : She can control and project fire.
Eldritch Blast : She can unleash magic blasts.
Size Alteration : Rachel can alternate her size and stature at will if she so chooses, [ 40 ] growing to match the height and menace of The Specter and even her father on several occasions, enlarging herself to gigantic proportions when the situation calls for it. [ 41 ]
Psychokinesis : Using a combination of inherent magic and her Soul-Self, Raven can psionically manipulate, arrange and alter astral forces for a variety of purposes. Influence minds, generate energy and manipulate matter at the atomic level. [ 34 ] Psionics : Raven is able to read thoughts, project and broadcast her own thoughts, as well as scan and alter the memories of others. [ 34 ] Empathy : Raven can sense the feelings of others with no filter. She constantly feels all the emotions of others and must learn to control them or they will overwhelm her. [ 34 ] Emotion Negation : She can also use her empathic abilities to steal emotions from others, rendering them emotionally "numb". Empathic Healing : She can absorb the pain of others into her own body in order to rapidly heal others from any physical injuries, as well as heal herself by going into a trance of emotional calm. Empathic Precognition : She can receive precognitive flashes of the future when exposed to extreme emotion. [ 42 ] Psychic Link : By using her empathic-based powers, Raven can enter another person's mind allowing her to see, feel and hear what they encounter.
Psionics : Raven is able to read thoughts, project and broadcast her own thoughts, as well as scan and alter the memories of others. [ 34 ] Empathy : Raven can sense the feelings of others with no filter. She constantly feels all the emotions of others and must learn to control them or they will overwhelm her. [ 34 ] Emotion Negation : She can also use her empathic abilities to steal emotions from others, rendering them emotionally "numb". Empathic Healing : She can absorb the pain of others into her own body in order to rapidly heal others from any physical injuries, as well as heal herself by going into a trance of emotional calm. Empathic Precognition : She can receive precognitive flashes of the future when exposed to extreme emotion. [ 42 ] Psychic Link : By using her empathic-based powers, Raven can enter another person's mind allowing her to see, feel and hear what they encounter.
Empathy : Raven can sense the feelings of others with no filter. She constantly feels all the emotions of others and must learn to control them or they will overwhelm her. [ 34 ] Emotion Negation : She can also use her empathic abilities to steal emotions from others, rendering them emotionally "numb". Empathic Healing : She can absorb the pain of others into her own body in order to rapidly heal others from any physical injuries, as well as heal herself by going into a trance of emotional calm. Empathic Precognition : She can receive precognitive flashes of the future when exposed to extreme emotion. [ 42 ] Psychic Link : By using her empathic-based powers, Raven can enter another person's mind allowing her to see, feel and hear what they encounter.
Emotion Negation : She can also use her empathic abilities to steal emotions from others, rendering them emotionally "numb".
Empathic Healing : She can absorb the pain of others into her own body in order to rapidly heal others from any physical injuries, as well as heal herself by going into a trance of emotional calm.
Empathic Precognition : She can receive precognitive flashes of the future when exposed to extreme emotion. [ 42 ]
Psychic Link : By using her empathic-based powers, Raven can enter another person's mind allowing her to see, feel and hear what they encounter.
Abilities
Deception
Occultism [ 39 ]
Pedagogy [ 39 ]
Psychology [ 39 ]
Paraphernalia
Transportation
Teleportation
Notes
Raven was created by Marv Wolfman and George Pérez , first appearing as part of the Teen Titans in DC Comics Presents Vol 1 . However, in the rebooted Prime Earth continuity her first appearance as part of the DC Universe is in the New 52 Teen Titans series.
Trivia
Raven's age has changed overtime in her publication since the New 52: In Raven: Daughter of Darkness #11 , she is expressed to be 16 years old. While not specified, Amanda Waller remarked Raven and her teammates, the Titans, to all be in their 20s. [ 43 ]
In Raven: Daughter of Darkness #11 , she is expressed to be 16 years old.
While not specified, Amanda Waller remarked Raven and her teammates, the Titans, to all be in their 20s. [ 43 ]
Fellow superhero Traci 13 remarked to being a big fan of Raven. [ 44 ]
Raven is currently dating Beast Boy and shares a room with him in the new Titans Tower. [ 45 ]
During her time as a faculty member of Teen Titans Academy, her primary role was a school counselor. [ 39 ]
She was named after the biblical figure Rachel . [ 46 ]
Related
346 Appearances of Raven (Prime Earth)
301 Images featuring Raven (Prime Earth)
21 Quotations by or about Raven (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Raven (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #20
↑ The Phantom Stranger (Volume 4) #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #20
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #19
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #20
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #21
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #22
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #22
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #23
↑ Forever Evil #2
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #24
↑ Teen Titans Annual (Volume 4) #2
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #25
↑ Superboy (Volume 6) #27 - 29
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #30
↑ Teen Titans Annual (Volume 4) #3
↑ Raven #1 - Raven #6
↑ Teen Titans: Rebirth #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 6) #1
↑ Teen Titans Academy #1
↑ Teen Titans Academy #4
↑ Teen Titans Academy 2021 Yearbook #1
↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #1
↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #3
↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #4
↑ Teen Titans Academy #9
↑ Teen Titans Academy #11
↑ Teen Titans Academy #12
↑ Teen Titans Academy #13
↑ Teen Titans Academy #14
↑ Teen Titans Academy #15
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #104
↑ Knight Terrors: Titans # - Knight Terrors: Titans (Volume 2) #
↑ 34.0 34.1 34.2 34.3 34.4 34.5 The Phantom Stranger (Volume 4) #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #25
↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #3
↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #3
↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #3
↑ 39.0 39.1 39.2 39.3 39.4 Teen Titans Academy 2021 Yearbook #1
↑ Titans (Volume 4) #13
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #6
↑ Teen Titans Academy #3
↑ Titans: Beast World #2
↑ Raven: Daughter of Darkness #8
↑ Titans (Volume 4) #1
↑ Dark Crisis: The Deadly Green #1
This character is or was primarily a member of the younger superhero team known as the Teen Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Teen Titans members " category.
This character is or was primarily a member of the superhero team known as the Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Titans members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.

Red Hood(disambiguation)
Jason Todd ( 2011 - Present ) Jason Todd Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Jason Todd ( 2011 - Present )
Red Hood is the name of several characters usually associated with the Batman mythos as villains . It was the original alias of the Joker , before the accident that drove him insane. Prior to his transformation he had been committing robberies in this disguise until Batman caught him at the Ace Chemical Processing Plant and accidentally pushed him into a vat of chemicals.
Many years later Jason Todd , formerly a Robin who had been killed by the Joker, took the name following his resurrection. He developed it into an anti-hero persona which he used to murder criminals indiscriminately. The actual hood itself is not really a hood, but a high-tech helmet with a computer inside.
The Red Hood Identity was created by Bill Finger and Lew Sayre Schwartz , first appearing in Detective Comics #168 ( 1951 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Post-Crisis Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.4 Elseworlds 1.5 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Post-Crisis Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.4 Elseworlds
1.5 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 DC Animated Universe 2.2 Lego Dimensions 2.3 Injustice Multiverse 2.4 Gotham (TV Series) 2.5 Others
2.1 DC Animated Universe
2.2 Lego Dimensions
2.3 Injustice Multiverse
2.4 Gotham (TV Series)
2.5 Others
3 Comics
4 Other Media Titles
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Post-Crisis Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Elseworlds
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
Gotham (TV Series)
Others
Comics
Other Media Titles

Reverse-Flash(disambiguation)
Eobard Thawne ( 2011 - Present ) Eobard Thawne Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Eobard Thawne ( 2011 - Present )
Reverse-Flash is a name used by several speedsters in the DC Universe who are enemies to the Flash .
The Rival was the speedster arch-nemesis to Jay Garrick in the Golden Age . Professor Zoom aka Eobard Thawne was the first villain to call himself Reverse-Flash, he was a 25th Century scientist who fought Barry Allen in the Silver Age . His successor was Zoom , an enemy to Wally West who replicated super-speed by moving through time. Inertia was the evil counterpart to Bart Allen , also calling himself Kid Zoom. The New 52 reboot introduces Daniel West , Iris West 's brother, as the new Reverse-Flash, while Rebirth returns Thawne to the role.
Reverse-Flash was created by John Broome and Carmine Infantino , first appearing in The Flash #139 ( 1963 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.5 Hypertime 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.5 Hypertime
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 Arrowverse 2.2 Others
2.1 Arrowverse
2.2 Others
3 Comics
4 See Also
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Possible Futures
Other Media
Arrowverse
Others
Comics
See Also
Negative Flash
Professor Zoom
Zoom
Pollux
Rival
Inertia

Richard Grayson (Prime Earth)
Nightwing Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Richard John "Dick" Grayson Main Alias Nightwing Other Aliases Robin · Agent 37 · Batman · Birdwatcher · Dan Smith [ 1 ] · Dicky-Boy · Foxwing [ 2 ] · Gray Son of Gotham · Ric Grayson · Superwing · Talon · Red X · Heartless · Robert "Robbie" Malone [ 3 ] Relatives Son of Gray (ancestor, deceased) Burton Crowne (great-great-grandfather, deceased) William Cobb (great-grandfather, deceased) Amelia Crowne (great-grandmother, deceased) "Gray Son of Gotham" (grandfather) John Grayson (father, deceased) Mary Grayson (mother, deceased) Bruce Wayne (legal guardian) Melinda Grayson-Lin (paternal half-sister) Audre (sister-in-law) Affiliation Titans , Batman Family , Justice League Unlimited · Formerly Bludhaven Police Department , [ 4 ] Parliament of Owls , Outsiders , Batman Incorporated , Haly's Circus , Teen Titans , Nightwings , Spyral Base Of Operations Blüdhaven · Formerly Gotham City Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Landlord · Vigilante · Former Assassin , Bartender, Cab Driver, Casino Dealer, Circus Owner, Dancer, Personal Trainer, Police Officer , Social Worker, Secret Agent , Teacher Characteristics Gender Male Height 5' 10" Weight 175 lbs (79 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Black Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Bill Finger · Bob Kane First Appearance Nightwing Vol 3  #1 ( November, 2011 )
Nightwing
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Dick Grayson is the ward [ 5 ] [ 6 ] of Bruce Wayne , better known as the vigilante Batman . Trained by the Dark Knight himself, Grayson eventually became Batman's sidekick, the first Robin . After Grayson outgrew his role as Batman's sidekick, he graduated to the role of Nightwing , donning a new costume, and, later, temporarily worked as Batman himself. However, after his secret identity was exposed, Grayson worked undercover as a spy for Spyral , taking the codename Agent 37 , before returning to his role as Nightwing once again.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origins 1.1.1 Early Life 1.1.2 Robin: Boy Wonder 1.1.3 Teen Titans 1.1.4 World's Finest 1.1.5 On His Own 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Traps and Trapezes 1.2.2 Night of the Owls 1.2.3 Death of the Family 1.2.4 Second City 1.2.5 Forever Evil 1.2.6 Spyral 1.2.7 Endgame 1.2.8 Nemesis 1.2.9 Batman & Robin Eternal 1.2.10 Titans Hunt 1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 Nightwing Once More 1.3.2 The Titans 1.3.3 The Lazarus Contract 1.3.4 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.3.5 The Bleeding Edge 1.3.6 Ric Grayson 1.3.7 Doomsday Clock 1.3.8 Joker War 1.3.9 Aftermath of Ric Grayson 1.3.10 Death Metal 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Leaping into the Light 1.4.2 Titans Academy 1.4.3 Fear State 1.4.4 Get Grayson 1.4.5 The Battle for Blüdhaven's Heart 1.4.6 Dark Crisis 1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors 1.5.2 The Gotham War 1.5.3 Out of the Shadows 1.5.4 The Crew of the Crossed 1.5.5 Beast World 1.5.6 Dark Prisons 1.5.7 Fallen Grayson 1.5.8 Dark-Winged Queen 1.5.9 Absolute Power 1.6 DC All In 1.6.1 On with the Show 1.6.2 Death Traps 1.6.3 The Nightwings
1.1 Origins 1.1.1 Early Life 1.1.2 Robin: Boy Wonder 1.1.3 Teen Titans 1.1.4 World's Finest 1.1.5 On His Own
1.1.1 Early Life
1.1.2 Robin: Boy Wonder
1.1.3 Teen Titans
1.1.4 World's Finest
1.1.5 On His Own
1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Traps and Trapezes 1.2.2 Night of the Owls 1.2.3 Death of the Family 1.2.4 Second City 1.2.5 Forever Evil 1.2.6 Spyral 1.2.7 Endgame 1.2.8 Nemesis 1.2.9 Batman & Robin Eternal 1.2.10 Titans Hunt
1.2.1 Traps and Trapezes
1.2.2 Night of the Owls
1.2.3 Death of the Family
1.2.4 Second City
1.2.5 Forever Evil
1.2.6 Spyral
1.2.7 Endgame
1.2.8 Nemesis
1.2.9 Batman & Robin Eternal
1.2.10 Titans Hunt
1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 Nightwing Once More 1.3.2 The Titans 1.3.3 The Lazarus Contract 1.3.4 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.3.5 The Bleeding Edge 1.3.6 Ric Grayson 1.3.7 Doomsday Clock 1.3.8 Joker War 1.3.9 Aftermath of Ric Grayson 1.3.10 Death Metal
1.3.1 Nightwing Once More
1.3.2 The Titans
1.3.3 The Lazarus Contract
1.3.4 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
1.3.5 The Bleeding Edge
1.3.6 Ric Grayson
1.3.7 Doomsday Clock
1.3.8 Joker War
1.3.9 Aftermath of Ric Grayson
1.3.10 Death Metal
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Leaping into the Light 1.4.2 Titans Academy 1.4.3 Fear State 1.4.4 Get Grayson 1.4.5 The Battle for Blüdhaven's Heart 1.4.6 Dark Crisis
1.4.1 Leaping into the Light
1.4.2 Titans Academy
1.4.3 Fear State
1.4.4 Get Grayson
1.4.5 The Battle for Blüdhaven's Heart
1.4.6 Dark Crisis
1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors 1.5.2 The Gotham War 1.5.3 Out of the Shadows 1.5.4 The Crew of the Crossed 1.5.5 Beast World 1.5.6 Dark Prisons 1.5.7 Fallen Grayson 1.5.8 Dark-Winged Queen 1.5.9 Absolute Power
1.5.1 Knight Terrors
1.5.2 The Gotham War
1.5.3 Out of the Shadows
1.5.4 The Crew of the Crossed
1.5.5 Beast World
1.5.6 Dark Prisons
1.5.7 Fallen Grayson
1.5.8 Dark-Winged Queen
1.5.9 Absolute Power
1.6 DC All In 1.6.1 On with the Show 1.6.2 Death Traps 1.6.3 The Nightwings
1.6.1 On with the Show
1.6.2 Death Traps
1.6.3 The Nightwings
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Origins
Early Life
When Dick Grayson was a child, he was an acrobatic prodigy travelling with the world-famous " Haly's Circus " along with his parents John and Mary Grayson . The three performers, known as the Flying Graysons , were one of Haly's most famous acts, a fact that went to Dick Grayson's head. Grayson, becoming rather pompous, began to drive away his closest friends Raymond and Raya .
During a major blackout in Gotham City caused by the Riddler , Grayson, who had decided to see a movie while Haly's Circus was in Gotham, was caught alone in the streets. Working with a couple of other kids, Grayson managed to survive the blackout and return to his family at Haly's camp. From the experience Grayson learned not to take his friends for granted and apologized for treating them so poorly. [ 7 ]
Haly's Circus hid a dark secret, having been training assassins for the Court of Owls for decades. Unknown to the young acrobat, Grayson had been selected to become the newest Talon for the Court; being groomed to replace Alton Carver .
Dick Grayson's parents were eventually killed by the mobster Tony Zucco on his mother's birthday, [ 8 ] leaving the acrobat an orphan. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Unable to work as an acrobat anymore, Grayson left the circus, unknowingly escaping his fate of becoming a Talon.
Robin: Boy Wonder
Dick Grayson as Robin
After being transferred to the Wayne Care Center, Bruce Wayne would occasionally check up on Grayson and help him out. While Grayson seemed to be recovering well from the tragedy, he would actually sneak out at night in order to conduct his own investigation into the whereabouts of Tony Zucco. Grayson would encounter Batman at various times, and the Bat helped Grayson with his investigation, empathizing with his similar tragedy. [ 8 ] [ 9 ]
Eventually, Batman brought Grayson to the Batcave and shared his identity as Bruce Wayne. Wayne then offered to help Grayson bring in Tony Zucco, [ 9 ] [ 8 ] a notion that Alfred Pennyworth was reluctant to accept. [ 8 ] Grayson accepted Wayne's offer and Wayne began training him over a period of a few months. After initially having trouble accepting a name, he finally settled on Robin, a reference to an adoration his mother had for the bird. [ 9 ]
One night, Batman was tracking the Assassin Lady Shiva before the hero was ambushed and bested by her in combat. Donning his costume early, Robin arrived at Batman's position for his first mission in the field but was no match for the assassin, who spared his life and said they'd meet again. [ 8 ]
After six months of training, Dick joined Bruce out on patrol for the first time, but after Dick disobeyed Bruce's orders to stay out of harm's way by taking down a thug he was fired. The next day, Dick informed Bruce that Tusk was planning a robbery at the docks that night in hopes of getting a second chance, but after being rejected, Dick decided to go anyway. After taking out some of Tusk's men, he was captured by Tusk himself, fortunately Bruce showed up just in time. Dick then followed Tusk in a helicopter, after a fight ensued, he managed to knock Tusk into the ocean. Bruce then showed up, deciding to take Dick back as his sidekick. [ 10 ]
Early in his career, Robin aided Batman in stopping the debuting Scarecrow who was causing Fear Toxin outbreaks across Gotham. The due pursued Scarecrow on an extended mission to bring him to justice. Eventually, Batman came across Mother and The Orphan and their human trafficking operations. Batman decided to keep Mother's crimes a secret from Dick, due to him seeing similarities between him and her child soldiers. [ 11 ]
Batman & Robin stopping Scarecrow
In his second year as Robin, Dick crashed the Batmobile while escaping Firefly. Even though Batman was ultimately pleased with how Dick acted in the field, he was banned from driving the Batmobile. [ 12 ]
At some point, Grayson partnered up and bonded with another teenager Batman had taken under his wing named Barbara Gordon , also known as Batgirl . [ 13 ] The pair developed romantic feelings for each other, though they did not engage in an extended relationship. [ 14 ]
Teen Titans
Robin and the Teen Titans
Dick eventually went on to join a team on teenage superheroes known as the Teen Titans . The founding group consisted of Robin, Kid Flash , Speedy , Aqualad and Wonder Girl . [ 15 ]
At some point, Dick assumed the identity of Red X . [ 16 ] Another person would later steal the identity from Dick, the Teen Titans came into conflict with the new Red X multiple times before he disappeared and was presumed dead. [ 17 ]
World's Finest
At some point, Dick went on a date with Kara Zor-El . Unfortunately, the outing ended in disaster. At first, Kara spent a good deal of time trying to pick out an outfit for the occasion, only to discover when she arrived that Dick had arrived to the date in-costume. She percieved it as showing off that he was going on a date with Superman's cousin; he was unsure that she had a secret identity, and hadn't wanted to assume. Subsequently, she complimented the waiter's eyes, comparing him to Hal Jordan, which Dick percieved as flirting with the waiter. Dick then offered to cover the check, which they both thought came off as bragging about the Wayne fortune.
Later, as Kara was telling Dick about the various kinds of Kryptonite, Dick interrupted, hungry, wondering when their food would arrive; Kara, as an empowered Kryptonian, didn't get hungry, leading to her frustration. Kara, hoping to smooth things over, asked about Dick's life; to which he told of his origin and the tragedy that led to him becoming Robin, leading to yet another awkward turn in the conversation. Subsequently, the date was interrupted by a car accident outside that resulted in a truckload full of bowling balls flying out into the street and an incipient bus crash. They managed to stop the incident, but not before getting soaked by a nearby puddle and covered and dirt. They attempted to resume the date, only for Dick to discover that he'd forgotten to pick up cash, and could not pay with a card without revealing his secret identity. Afterwards, they parted ways. [ 18 ]
On His Own
Years later, Grayson and his mentor had an argument, [ 19 ] resulting in Dick leaving Bruce's side and taking up a new identity as Nightwing- a name that had been inspired by a conversation a young Dick Grayson had with Superman . [ 20 ] Nightwing eventually left Gotham, occasionally returning to mentor the next Robin , Red Robin [ 21 ] and further train Batgirl. [ 22 ] At some point he moved to Bludhaven , where he bought an apartment building [ 23 ] and joined the Bludhaven Police Department for a period. [ 4 ]
At some point during his time as Robin, Dick was confronted by Deathstroke , the world's deadliest assassin. Deathstroke made Dick an offer: guide Deathstroke's daughter Rose down the right path, so she doesn't follow in the footsteps of her father. In exchange, Deathstroke would stop trying to kill Dick and the rest of the Teen Titans. Dick accepted Slade's offer and began training Rose soon afterwards as Nightwing. [ 24 ]
When Batman was apparently killed by Darkseid in one altercation, Grayson accepted the role as Batman for Bruce's sake and took Bruce's newly discovered son Damian on as his Robin. [ 25 ] They would form a close bond while working with each other, fighting against the likes of Professor Pyg , the Joker and Dr. Hurt , [ 26 ] until Bruce returned and retook the mantle. [ 27 ]
New 52
Traps and Trapezes
Main article: Nightwing: Traps and Trapezes
Dick Grayson as Nightwing
Dick returned to his identity as Nightwing, leaving Bruce Wayne to be the Batman once more. After his return, Haly's Circus came to Gotham for the first time since Grayson's parents were murdered. In his civilian identity, Grayson was attacked by an assassin named Saiko who insisted that Grayson was the fiercest killer in Gotham. [ 28 ] Saiko tortured C.C. Haly for information on Nightwing's secret identity, and the old man died in Grayson's arms after telling the former Flying Grayson that the circus holds a terrible secret. [ 29 ] Dick inherited the deed to the circus from Haly and soon began a relationship with his childhood friend, acrobat Raya Vestri .
The circus announced they would be doing a memorial show on the anniversary of the night Grayson's parents were murdered, and, during the show, Saiko detonated an explosive inside the tent. [ 30 ] While fighting the assassin, Nightwing discovered Saiko's secret identity - Raymond McCreary , a childhood friend of his, who had also been using Dick's girlfriend Raya as an accomplice. Saiko plummeted to his death in his battle with Nightwing, who was unable to save him, and Raya turned herself in, seeing that her plan to destroy Haly's had failed. [ 31 ]
Night of the Owls
Main article: Night of the Owls
Nightwing fighting his great-grandfather
When the Court of Owls initiated an attack on Gotham, sending their Talon assassins to take-out high-ranking people in the city, Nightwing went to save Mayor Sebastian Hady and came face-to-face with a Talon. Using lethal force on the undead zombie Talon, Nightwing stabbed him across the eye with his escrima stick, slowing the assassin's ability to heal. However, another Talon named William Cobb , who Batman had revealed to Nightwing was Dick's revived great-grandfather, attacked Nightwing and stabbed him in the chest. Nightwing then tricked Cobb into Gotham's train tunnels, where the hero was able to freeze him with a liquid nitrogen tub. [ 32 ]
Following the event, Dick decided to keep Haly's Circus in Gotham and planned to invest in turning an abandoned amusement park into their new location using his own money. [ 33 ] He worked with Sonia Branch , the daughter of his parents' killer Tony Zucco, into getting a loan for this plan by investing his entire trust fund into the project. [ 34 ]
Death of the Family
Main article: Death of the Family
Nightwing vs. the Joker
A year after his disappearance, the Joker resurfaced in Gotham City wearing the dismembered skin of his face as a mask and prepared to eliminate all of Batman's allies.
While at his circus, Dick was mauled by his performers who had been exposed to Joker Venom . After being overwhelmed by them, Grayson passed out and was dragged to an underground cave by the Joker himself, who was setting up for his confrontation with the Bat. There in the cave, all of Batman's allies, beaten and gagged by the clown, were forced to take part in a makeshift feast scenario for Batman, where Joker told Batman he had cut off the entire Bat-Family 's faces and put them on ice. He also urged Batman to kill his allies, arguing that his true family is the villains he fights. Escaping from his captivity, Batman attempted to catch the Joker, but the madman fell off a cliff to his apparent death before he could be caught.
After being freed and having their wounds tended to, Nightwing and the rest of the family refused to meet at Wayne Manor , finding this last interaction with the Joker had put a wedge in their relationships.
Second City
In the aftermath of Joker's personal attack, which had resulted in the total destruction of Dick's circus and all of his funds, as well as the death of his former sidekick Damian, Grayson sought a fresh start in Chicago after discovering that Tony Zucco , his parents' killer, was alive and living there.
Setting up in his new city, Grayson found himself having to elude Chicago law enforcement due to their strict no tolerance policy on vigilante-related actions. Trying to find a lead on Zucco's location, Grayson reluctantly enlisted the help of Chicago's newest super-villain, The Prankster . However, Grayson ended up battling the Prankster and his forces as they launched a siege on Chicago. [ 35 ] With the city on lockdown, Grayson was then forced to reluctantly team up with Zucco, the man he was searching for, to take down the Prankster. [ 36 ] In the aftermath of the attack and his interaction with Nightwing, Tony Zucco turned himself to the police. [ 37 ]
Despite Grayson leaving Gotham, he didn't seem to be able to escape its villains and, during his time in Chicago, fought both the Mad Hatter [ 38 ] and Zsasz before deciding to return home. [ 39 ]
Forever Evil
Main article: Forever Evil
Nightwing's identity is exposed
Shortly after the Crime Syndicate came to Earth and supposedly killed the Justice League , Nightwing was captured by the invaders on his way back to Gotham and had his identity revealed to the world in order to threaten the hero community even further. [ 40 ]
After a failed escape attempt, Grayson agreed to help Owlman betray the Syndicate, [ 41 ] but their plan was never set into motion as the Crime Syndicate put Dick in a trap called the Murder Machine - a bomb that would only disengage if Grayson's heart stopped beating. Later Batman, Catwoman and Lex Luthor were able to rescue him when Luthor stopped Grayson's heart for a few seconds in order to successfully both disarm the bomb and keep him alive. [ 42 ] With Dick now free, the group defeated the Syndicate and returned the Justice League to power.
Spyral
Main article: Grayson Vol 1
Dick Grayson, Agent of Spyral
In the wake of the collapse of the Crime Syndicate, Batman gave his former apprentice a new mission: infiltrate the organization known as Spyral as a double agent. Batman told Dick that the risks of taking the mission meant that he could not let his identity be known to anyone, especially those close to him. Grayson reluctantly accepted the mission. Setting out into the world, Dick began taking down various terrorist plots, including those involving the group called the Fist of Cain. His actions successfully attracted the attention of Spyral, who sent Helena Bertinelli , the agent known as Matron, out to recruit him. He was eventually enlisted into Spyral by the organization's mysterious leader, Mister Minos . [ 21 ]
After being teamed up with Helena, Grayson was ordered to find the different Organs of the Paragon Project. Through their search they encountered Midnighter on more than one occasion, who was also searching for the Paragon Project and tried to hinder Spyral's successes. [ 43 ] When the mission to retrieve the Stomach brought them to Leicester they encountered a former T.H.E.Y. agent, Dr. Poppy Ashemore , who had stolen the Stomach from the British Government. Though Grayson was against negotiating with Ashemore, Helena as the senior agent employed Ashemore as a new Spyral doctor. [ 44 ] Through the missions Dick came into contact with other agents of Spyral and delved deeper into the organization, all the while keeping in mind that he was undercover. [ 45 ] [ 43 ] Grayson later found out about the Nanite Robots that Spyral had been developing, which forced even Bruce to admit that the mission could be more dangerous than they had previously thought. [ 46 ]
On their mission to retrieve the last Organ, Helena and Dick encountered the Fist of Cain again. [ 47 ] After initial problems and disagreements, Midnighter allied with them and together they were able to prevent the terrorist attack the Fist of Cain had planned and retrieve the final Organ. [ 48 ] The reason the hunt for the Paragon Organs was important was finally revealed when Mr. Minos betrayed Spyral. Grayson and Tiger were able to destroy Paragon and Mr. Minos was killed by Helena in the aftermath. [ 49 ]
Endgame
Main article: Batman: Endgame
When the Joker returned to terrorize Gotham in an endgame plot against Batman, Grayson briefly left Spyral and returned to Gotham in order to aid Batman. To deceive both the Joker and Batman's allies, Grayson donned a copy of Bruce's cowl and led the attack on the Joker in the heart of the city. When the Joker removed Batman's mask expecting to reveal Bruce's secret identity to everyone else, he instead found Dick Grayson. [ 50 ]
Grayson left Gotham before the revelation of Batman's death and was not immediately made aware of the new Batman that had since arisen. [ 51 ]
Nemesis
Grayson returned to his duties as Agent 37 and was sent on a mission to retrieve a Kryptonian amulet from a Spanish duchess with his new partner Tiger, AKA Agent 1. After they obtained it Grayson was contacted by Helena. She suspected Agent 1 was a traitor who had murdered numerous agents from other espionage groups. Grayson left his partner behind to get the amulet away safely. [ 51 ] At his drop point he encountered Lex Luthor , who told him that LexCorp had been involved with Spyral since the beginning. Losing his trust in Helena, he searched for Tiger [ 52 ] and was able to save him from the real traitor. During the fight it became obvious to Grayson that Spyral knew even more than he thought and he was now fully convinced that it was time to go back to Gotham. [ 53 ]
Batman & Robin Eternal
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Titans Hunt
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
DC Rebirth
Nightwing Once More
After successfully completing his mission with Spyral, Dick returned to Gotham and to his superhero identity as Nightwing. The Parliament of Owls attempted to blackmail Dick into becoming a member of the Parliament, by planting a bomb in the head of Damian Wayne . Dick managed to neutralize the bomb with a device given to him by Midnighter. [ 54 ] Even with the bomb neutralized, Dick remained part of the Parliament, attempting to take them down from the inside. Shortly after his new membership began, Dick was assigned a partner, an assassin named Raptor , who believed Dick needed a new mentor. [ 55 ]
The Titans
After Wally West escaped from being trapped in the Speed Force and began looking for the Titans, Dick was the first Titan to be found by Wally. Dick didn't know or recognize him until Wally zapped him with electricity, "shocking" his memories back. [ 56 ]
The Lazarus Contract
After both the Flash and Kid Flash were kidnapped by Deathstroke , Nightwing along with the Titans and Teen Titans attempted to find the two Wallys. During this time, Dick kept his history with Deathstroke and the deal they had made a secret.
Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
Main article: Dark Nights: Metal
Batman enlisted Nightwing and other members of the Batman Family to create a diversion for the Justice League as they were hunting him. Batman was able to continue his investigation into the Dark Multiverse thanks to the family, and accidentally unleashed the Dark Lord Barbatos and his minions on the Multiverse . [ 57 ] It was around this time that Nightwing began having visions of Barbatos due to the wound he suffered in his confrontation with Doctor Hurt.
Nightwing in Freeze's domain
After Barbatos' invasion, Challengers Mountain appeared in the middle of Gotham. Nightwing headed back to Gotham to reclaim his home and to find the source of his visions. The city had fallen under the control of The Batman Who Laughs who was working for Barbatos. The evil Batman had given Cosmic Metallurgy Cards to some of Batman's greatest rogues , which allowed them to warp reality to their whims. Each of the rogues controlled a portion of the city. Nightwing sent Green Arrow to assist the Teen Titans with defeating the Riddler [ 58 ] while he headed to Challengers Mountain where he believed the source of his visions were located. While Nightwing was fleeing from one of Mister Freeze 's ice giants he ran into the Gotham Resistance, which was comprised of Robin, Green Arrow, Harley Quinn and Killer Croc . After defeating the ice giant with the help of the Resistance, Nightwing filled them in on his activities in Gotham which led to a confrontation with Freeze himself. After arming themselves with the Parliament of Owls' weaponry, Nightwing and the Resistance were able to defeat Mister Freeze and head further into the city. [ 59 ]
The Bleeding Edge
Batman fights Killer Croc
When Bruce was summoned to serve jury duty on Victor Fries 's trial right after his failed wedding with Selina Kyle , Dick needed to slip on the batsuit once again. Grayson as Batman meets up with Commissioner Gordon who instantly realizes that he's not Bruce but rather the "other him". Batman then battles Killer Croc , during the fight Dick leaves a message where he tells Bruce to give him a call when he could. [ 60 ]
Bludhaven received an upgrade, courtesy of Mirage, to become a 'digital' city. Nightwing, suspicious of various murders, leaked personal information on the victims, and exploding cell phones, enlisted Batgirl's aide in uncovering the mystery of Mirage. Nightwing and Batgirl discovered that Mirage was a front for Wyrm, an agent of the Dark Webb. Wyrm attempted to hack Nightwing by injecting him with a cybernetic bug; however, Batgirl managed to contain and later remove the device. [ 61 ]
Ric Grayson
Nightwing was shot by KGBeast , [ 62 ] leading to a memory loss. He however retain his fighting skills and desire to fight crime. [ 63 ]
Doomsday Clock
Main article: Doomsday Clock Vol 1
After Superman is framed and rendered comatose, Nightwing joined the group of heroes heading towards Mars to confront their mysterious enemy. The heroes meet and engage Doctor Manhattan , but they are easily defeated. [ 64 ]
Joker War
Main article: The Joker War
Dicky-Boy: Joker 's son
After recovering from an attack by the Court of Owls , Ric sought out a way to restore his old memories. He decided to try to find Dr. Isabella Haas , a brainwasher associated with the Court of Owls. Haas gave Dick a memory crystal that would allow him to rewrite his own memory.
However, while Ric was distracted by his girlfriend Bea Bennett and the escaped villain Tusk , the Joker returned, aware of Batman and his allies' identities, and stole the memory crystal from Dick without his knowledge. [ 65 ] Joker used the crystal to rewrite Ric's memory once again, this time convincing him that he was the Joker's longtime sidekick named "Dickyboy". [ 66 ]
Under the Joker's spell, Dickyboy went to Gotham and lured Barbara Gordon into a trap. [ 67 ] In the end, Batgirl managed to flee, but it was all part of the plan: Joker wanted to lure Jason Todd and Tim Drake to the Alfred Pennyworth Children Hospital, giving Dickyboy the opportunity to kill them all together. [ 68 ]
Though the Joker's plan almost succeeded, Bea and Batgirl worked together to steal Ric's memory crystal back from the Joker and used it to restore all his memories back to before KGBeast shot him. He was no longer Ric Grayson, but Dick Grayson. [ 69 ]
Now once again part of the Batman Family , Nightwing helped Batman as Gotham plunged into chaos because of the Joker War. Nightwing and Batgirl captured the Joker's lieutenant Punchline, and, through their teamwork, Gotham was saved from the clown once again. [ 70 ]
Aftermath of Ric Grayson
After the Joker War and restoring his memory, Dick wrestled with an identity crisis, trying to consolidate the time he had spent as Ric with his past life as Dick and Nightwing. After discussing with his friends Donna Troy , Garth , Batgirl , and Batman , it was Dick's memory of Alfred that convinced him he could be Nightwing while also living a happy life together with Bea. He returned to being Nightwing and made the Nightwings of Bludhaven disband.
Later, Dick went to talk with Bea with the intention that, even though Dick was no longer Ric, that he was still the same person and that they should continue their relationship. However, in that moment, KGBeast crashed inside Bea's bar, taking the woman hostage and promising Nightwing this time he would finish the job. [ 71 ] Having used all the knowledge he had acquired while he was Ric, Dick successfully countered KGBeast, causing his grenade launcher to explode in his hand, finally getting justice.
Having realized the danger that his superhero lifestyle would put her in, Dick shied away from his original plan and instead told Bea that, due to his new-old memories, that he no longer loved her. The two broke up, and Dick returned to the status quo.
Death Metal
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Infinite Frontier
Leaping into the Light
The return of Dick Grayson
Nightwing returned to Blüdhaven with a new lease on life. Dick was shocked to find that, due to Alfred Pennyworth 's death, the man had named Dick in his will and bequeathed him several billion dollars in stocks in Wayne Enterprises. [ 72 ] Dick swore to invest the money into Blüdhaven's homelessness, poverty and petty crime problems, acting as a "safety net" for the city. [ 73 ]
A new problem arose when Melina Zucco , daughter of Dick's parents' murderer Tony Zucco , had become mayor of Blüdhaven. Nightwing went to confront her, but Melinda unmasked him and revealed that she was actually the bastard daughter of John Grayson, and therefore Dick's half-sister. [ 74 ] Dick learned that Melinda was secretly working for the FBI to take down organized crime. Dick chose to believe her and was able to escape.
Later, Dick thanked Barbara for being everything, and they shared a kiss. Dick then held a press conference to announce that he was starting The Alfred Pennyworth Foundation to help the less fortunate. [ 75 ]
Titans Academy
Nightwing, along with his teammates Raven , Beast Boy , Cyborg , Donna Troy , and Starfire formed an academy in honor of Roy Harper to train new Titans. [ 76 ]
Fear State
The Bat-Family storm Magistrate Skybase-01
Nightwing receives a message he believes is from Oracle telling him to return to Gotham. This turns out to be a trap set up by the Magistrate, but Dick is saved by Batman. Dick meets with Barbara at the Clock Tower where she dons her new Batgirl suit to fight on the front lines as she is locked out of her system, despite Dick's misgivings. [ 77 ]
After Dick helped Barbara destroy her equipment, they went to Oracle 2, where the person known as Seer was believed to be operating. Once inside, Dick and Babs are subjected to fear toxin, and fight each other due to the visions they experience. Tim is able to save the two of them and they rush to the Clock Tower to try and save Cass and Steph from a bomb that Seer put in the Clock Tower. Dick, Babs, and Tim would watch in horror as the Clock Tower exploded. [ 78 ] Dick, Tim and, Babs found out that Steph and Cass were able to escape the Clock Tower before it exploded.
Together, they formulated a plan to steal the suits of Magistrate soldiers to fly up to Skybase-01 where Seer and Simon Saint were operating. When they arrived they find out Seer isn't on the base, and that Seer has set the ship to crash into the city with children onboard. Having to abandon Seer, Cass, Steph, and Tim rescue the children while Babs and Dick take down Seer. Unfortunately, Seer wasn't there, but Simon Saint was. Babs and Dick take down Saint and have Skybase-01 crash harmlessly into the harbor, while Babs ponders her next move against Seer. [ 79 ]
Get Grayson
Nightwing and The Titans stop Blockbuster's plans
After Babs discovered a price had been put on Dick's head, several hitmen dognapped Haley . With Barbara's help as both Oracle and Batgirl, he was able to rescue Haley. [ 80 ] During a groundbreaking event, Dick was nearly assassinated by agents sent by Blockbuster but saved by the Titans who were contacted by Babs to provide protection. Dick would join the Titans in saving several civilians from the agents sent by Blockbuster. [ 81 ]
A few days later, Dick is woken up by a message from Melinda telling him Blockbuster sent a drone to take out his apartment. After making sure everyone was safe, Wally West arrived and took Dick to Keystone City in order to keep him safe. As they were trying to get to get the target of his back, they are contacted by Barbara. She tells them she had been kidnapped and gave them their location. They saved her and ambushed the person who sent the kidnappers: KGBeast. [ 82 ]
After Wally and Dick defeated KGBeast, they return to Wally's home and found out that the assassins were sent by the group called La Agente Funebre who were considered a myth. Babs was able to pinpoint their location in Costa Rica where Wally and Dick raced to. There they were engaged by an assassin who Dick was able to defeat. After talking to Wally, who encouraged him to figure things out between Dick and Babs. Dick then used La Agente Funebre's network to set up their assassins to be taken down by other heroes, crippling the organization. [ 83 ]
The Battle for Blüdhaven's Heart
After the opening of Haven, a space for the needy of Blüdhaven, Dick stops several masked BPD officers while removing their masks so that Oracle's cameras could use facial recognition to identify them. [ 84 ] After BPD Commissioner Maclean uses the attack to attempt to shutdown Haven. Oracle releases the list of officers involved in the prior attack to discredit Maclean. [ 85 ] Maclean attempts to leave Blüdhaven under Melinda suggestion, made in order to get MaClean in the open and get his files on Blockbuster. Dick intercepts him and takes the files to Barbara. Dick then gets a call from Melinda, who was attempting to free the Electrocutioner from Blockbuster, but was discovered. [ 86 ]
After Dick and several other heroes attack Blockbuster's criminal enterprises Blockbuster retailats by attacking Haven and setting muc of it on fire. Dick rushes to Haven and encounters Blockbuster holding two children hostage. Blockbuster demanded he surrender or he'd kill the childern. Dick did so and after Blockbuster released the children Blockbuster attacked Dick, knocking off his maks in the process. [ 87 ] Dick counterattacked, and was able to defeat Blockbuster who had to flee after his henchmen abandoned him. After the dust settled, Dick talked to Barabara, telling her that they couldn't be together due to Blockbuster knowing his identity. Barbara laughed, and told him that she is aware of the risks, and it doesn't matter to her as she is happy being with him. Dick realized she was right and they shared a kiss, affirming their relationship. [ 88 ]
Dark Crisis
Nightwing leads the Titans to war
After the apparent death of the Justice League , Deathstroke alongside the Dark Army assault the Titans Academy where Nightwing and many more heroes are there [ 89 ] . Nightwing and Superman fight against Deathstroke and Cyborg Superman in a bloody battle, but the villains momentarily escape [ 90 ] . After 24 hours since the previous attack, Nightwing and every single available hero are recovering in the Hall of Justice when Deathstroke and the Dark Army attack once more [ 91 ] . As the war rages on, The Justice League gets resurrected [ 92 ] and Nightwing fights Slade again, but this time it's in Dick's mind. Dick defeats Slade in his mind just in time to save Black Adam and defeat Deathstroke in the real world. The heroes save the day again, but the League is disbanded [ 93 ] .
Dawn of DC
Nightwing is given powers by Neron
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Knight Terrors
Nightwing and the rest of the world are put to sleep
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Gotham War
Nightwing and The Batman Family battle Batman
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Out of the Shadows
Nightwing and The Titans move to Bludhaven
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Crew of the Crossed
Nightwing becomes a pirate to defeat Dirk Blüd
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Beast World
Nightwing is transformed into a beast
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dark Prisons
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Fallen Grayson
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dark-Winged Queen
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Absolute Power
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
DC All In
On with the Show
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Death Traps
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Nightwings
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Demonic Empowerment : Neron gave Nightwing two hours of superpowers in the hopes of tempting him. These powers included a connection to the Speed Force and the powers of a Kryptonian . [ 94 ] Flight [ 94 ] Invulnerability [ 94 ] Self-Sustenance [ 94 ] Superhuman Speed [ 94 ] Superhuman Strength [ 94 ]
Flight [ 94 ]
Invulnerability [ 94 ]
Self-Sustenance [ 94 ]
Superhuman Speed [ 94 ]
Superhuman Strength [ 94 ]
Kryptonian Physiology : In a battle against a magically enhanced Sinestro , Dick was given powers similar to that of Superman's by Mr. Mxyzptlk . Although Dick easily defeated Sinestro, he couldn't properly adjust to the powers and got overwhelmed. [ 95 ] Telescopic Vision Flight Heat Vision Super-Breath Super-Hearing Super-Speed Super-Strength
Telescopic Vision
Flight
Heat Vision
Super-Breath
Super-Hearing
Super-Speed
Super-Strength
Abilities
Acrobatics : Richard Grayson was an acrobatic prodigy as a child, being part of the Flying Graysons act who were well known for conducting incredible acrobatic feats without the use of a net. [ 5 ]
Espionage : Due to tutelage from Helena Bertinelli and experience from his tenure as an agent of the covert organization Spyral , he gained valuable espionage experience. [ 96 ] [ 97 ]
Genius Level Intellect : Having been personally trained by Batman, Dick is highly intelligent with advanced knowledge in various fields and is one of the most resilient and brilliant crime fighters in the world. [ 5 ] Aviation [ 98 ] Criminology [ 99 ] Chemistry [ 28 ] Disguise : Trained by Alfred Pennyworth , Dick is proficient in the art of disguise. He was capable of impersonating the Joker [ 100 ] and Batman on occasion. [ 50 ] [ 101 ] Driving [ 37 ] Eidetic Memory : Batman taught Dick the Memory Palace Technique, which allowed him to remember Raptor and deduce that Raptor was to blame for his own problems and not Bruce Wayne. [ 102 ] Escapology : Dick is an expert escape artist. [ 5 ] [ 103 ] Forensic Science : Dick has an advanced knowledge of forensics due to his training with Batman. [ 104 ] Computer Hacking : As part of his training to be Robin, Bruce gave Dick an exam that required him to hack into a S.T.A.R. Labs satellite. [ 105 ] Investigation : Trained personally by Batman, Dick is a world-class detective. [ 14 ] [ 5 ] Law : Dick has a law degree. [ 106 ] Leadership : Due to his charisma and usual positive outlook, Dick has proven himself to be a natural leader. [ 107 ] [ 5 ] Lock Picking [ 108 ] Multilingualism : He can speak English, German, [ 109 ] Russian, [ 110 ] and nine other languages. [ 111 ] Physics [ 112 ] Tactical Analysis : Dick is a capable tactician due to his training from Batman. He is also skilled in reading the body motions of others, allowing him to to anticipate the actions of multiple armed opponents and even Batman . [ 113 ] [ 114 ] Tracking [ 30 ]
Aviation [ 98 ]
Criminology [ 99 ]
Chemistry [ 28 ]
Disguise : Trained by Alfred Pennyworth , Dick is proficient in the art of disguise. He was capable of impersonating the Joker [ 100 ] and Batman on occasion. [ 50 ] [ 101 ]
Driving [ 37 ]
Eidetic Memory : Batman taught Dick the Memory Palace Technique, which allowed him to remember Raptor and deduce that Raptor was to blame for his own problems and not Bruce Wayne. [ 102 ]
Escapology : Dick is an expert escape artist. [ 5 ] [ 103 ]
Forensic Science : Dick has an advanced knowledge of forensics due to his training with Batman. [ 104 ]
Computer Hacking : As part of his training to be Robin, Bruce gave Dick an exam that required him to hack into a S.T.A.R. Labs satellite. [ 105 ]
Investigation : Trained personally by Batman, Dick is a world-class detective. [ 14 ] [ 5 ]
Law : Dick has a law degree. [ 106 ]
Leadership : Due to his charisma and usual positive outlook, Dick has proven himself to be a natural leader. [ 107 ] [ 5 ]
Lock Picking [ 108 ]
Multilingualism : He can speak English, German, [ 109 ] Russian, [ 110 ] and nine other languages. [ 111 ]
Physics [ 112 ]
Tactical Analysis : Dick is a capable tactician due to his training from Batman. He is also skilled in reading the body motions of others, allowing him to to anticipate the actions of multiple armed opponents and even Batman . [ 113 ] [ 114 ]
Tracking [ 30 ]
Indomitable Will [ 49 ]
Interrogation [ 30 ]
Intimidation [ 30 ]
Martial Arts : After being put through Batman's brutal training regime, Dick became a master martial artist, capable of going toe-to-toe with and defeating other deadly fighters, including Talon , [ 32 ] Midnighter by cheating [ 115 ] and even an unrestrained Batman . [ 116 ] [ 96 ] [ 117 ] Bruce considers Dick to have been a natural when he first started training him due to his years as an acrobat in the circus, compared to Jason or Tim who had to work hard when first training in combat. [ 118 ] Though not as skilled as Lady Shiva , she was left impressed with his fighting skill. [ 119 ] As part of his Robin training, Bruce taught Dick a technique called "language of combat", wherein he can communicate with others while fighting. [ 120 ] After being briefly brainwashed, he retains the memories of a whole other life where he acquired lethal training under the Court of Owls ' tutelage, becoming their best assassin. [ 121 ] [ 122 ] [ 123 ] Despite being heavily damaged and blood ridden, Dick still manages to best Deathstroke , in a round of combat. [ 124 ] Batman acknowledges that Nightwing's the toughest and best hand-to-hand combatant out of all the Robins, almost killing an already weary damaged Bruce in battle, when Dick was under mind control . [ 125 ] Bruce also admits that when fighting Dick he has a difficult time tagging him, but that Dick's offense is sloppy at times. [ 126 ] Even with a dislocated arm, Dick's capable of besting KGBeast in battle. [ 127 ] Boxing [ 108 ] Eskrima : Dick is a master of eskrima, a fighting style he frequently employs when wielding his dual batons. [ 28 ] Mushin [ 128 ] [ 129 ] Ninjitsu [ 8 ] [ 130 ] Stick Fighting : Dick is a master of Bojutsu, a stick-based martial art that uses a bo staff. He was taught this fighting style by Batman, as part of his training. [ 28 ]
Boxing [ 108 ]
Eskrima : Dick is a master of eskrima, a fighting style he frequently employs when wielding his dual batons. [ 28 ]
Mushin [ 128 ] [ 129 ]
Ninjitsu [ 8 ] [ 130 ]
Stick Fighting : Dick is a master of Bojutsu, a stick-based martial art that uses a bo staff. He was taught this fighting style by Batman, as part of his training. [ 28 ]
Medicine : Dick was trained to perform field surgery by Alfred Pennyworth . [ 131 ]
Peak Human Condition : Through years of extensive and intensive training, Dick has achieved the peak of human perfection both mentally and physically. [ 97 ] His speed and agility is at a level that even surprised and impressed Wally West . [ 132 ]
Seduction [ 51 ]
Sewing [ 133 ]
Stealth : Dick's stealth is second to Batman 's. He successfully remained undetected by the likes of Alfred Pennyworth , Batgirl , Red Hood , and Red Robin ; while in the Batcave. [ 134 ] [ 35 ]
Throwing : Dick is capable of throwing various objects and weapons with precision. [ 8 ] He has often thrown his escrima sticks to incapacitate his opponents. He has even done the same with the use of a gun. On one occasion Dick was able to make his escrima sticks ricochet 37 times before returning to him. [ 135 ]
Weaponry : Due to his training with Batman, Richard is well versed in many melee weapons such as staffs, [ 8 ] escrima sticks and bladed weaponry such as swords. [ 32 ] Firearms : Dick is a master marksman, and is highly skilled in the use of firearms. [ 49 ] Swordsmanship [ 32 ] [ 136 ]
Firearms : Dick is a master marksman, and is highly skilled in the use of firearms. [ 49 ]
Swordsmanship [ 32 ] [ 136 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Nightwing Suit : As Nightwing, Dick Grayson's costume is tailored specifically to his unique style of crime-fighting. It is made up of sturdy but flexible material that not only suits his strength, speed, and acrobatics but also is durable enough to withstand gunfire. His former costume was a stylized red "wing" across his shoulders and extending to his hands, coloring his two middle fingers, over a black torso and legs. He also has gauntlets much like Batman's suit . He also has variants of his costume with different design elements, one of which was an armored suit that sported a Bat Symbol, which has since been used by Red Hood . [ 137 ] His suit houses various hidden compartments for his gadgetry such as smoke pellets, fire extinguishing pellets, wing-dings and small bombs. The fingertips of the suit also enable him to use lockpicks [ 138 ] and a needle which can give chemical analysis. [ 139 ] Dick got a new suit that crafted for him by Mister Terrific, thanks to a favor by Wally West. [ 140 ] Nightwing's Domino Mask : As Nightwing, Dick's domino mask is shaped just like his wing-dings. It has various capabilities such as being able to track the GPS coordinates of a cell phone, thermal vision, detect radio waves, and is capable of giving detailed analysis of scenes and fights. Nightwing's Gauntlets : Hidden within secret compartments lies Nightwing's gadgetry, in which a great majority seems to be hidden. He has various gadgetry in his gauntlets such as binoculars and they are occasionally used to store his Escrima Sticks. His gauntlets can also shoot remote bombs, a sonic device with his ear dampeners and a grapple line. Electric Shock : Dick's entire suit is wired to deliver a 150-thousand-volt shock through the gloves of the suit, however it only has enough power for a one-time charge. [ 29 ] EMP Mask : A highly advanced mask created by Lucius Fox , the mask is made of webbing that retracts light surrounding the wearer's head and artificially alters the appearance of someone's face. Richard has used it to sneak into Arkham Asylum and pose as Joker [ 100 ] and used it again to gain information on Lady Shiva . [ 34 ]
Nightwing's Domino Mask : As Nightwing, Dick's domino mask is shaped just like his wing-dings. It has various capabilities such as being able to track the GPS coordinates of a cell phone, thermal vision, detect radio waves, and is capable of giving detailed analysis of scenes and fights.
Nightwing's Gauntlets : Hidden within secret compartments lies Nightwing's gadgetry, in which a great majority seems to be hidden. He has various gadgetry in his gauntlets such as binoculars and they are occasionally used to store his Escrima Sticks. His gauntlets can also shoot remote bombs, a sonic device with his ear dampeners and a grapple line.
Electric Shock : Dick's entire suit is wired to deliver a 150-thousand-volt shock through the gloves of the suit, however it only has enough power for a one-time charge. [ 29 ]
EMP Mask : A highly advanced mask created by Lucius Fox , the mask is made of webbing that retracts light surrounding the wearer's head and artificially alters the appearance of someone's face. Richard has used it to sneak into Arkham Asylum and pose as Joker [ 100 ] and used it again to gain information on Lady Shiva . [ 34 ]
Spyral Implants (Formerly) : During his time as an agent of Spyral , Dick received various implants to better aid him in the field when he was on his missions. [ 96 ] These were shut down after he left Spyral. Hypnos : Hypnos are implants that enable the user to hypnotize others. Dick immediately displayed mastery in using Hypnos despite it normally taking years to master. However, it is revered as a dangerous implant which can cause a two-way brain scramble if misused. [ 96 ] Identity Protection : The implants make the user's face unable to be captured by surveillance cameras and a person's memory. [ 96 ]
Hypnos : Hypnos are implants that enable the user to hypnotize others. Dick immediately displayed mastery in using Hypnos despite it normally taking years to master. However, it is revered as a dangerous implant which can cause a two-way brain scramble if misused. [ 96 ]
Identity Protection : The implants make the user's face unable to be captured by surveillance cameras and a person's memory. [ 96 ]
Transportation
Wingcycle
Weapons
Escrima Sticks : Personalized by Richard himself, his escrima sticks are dual fighting baton-like sticks. He also later upgraded them so they could shoot a grappling line, [ 119 ] and even hold some smoke bombs. The sticks can also combine together into a bo-staff. [ 141 ] Electro-Blast : Dick's Escrima sticks are capable of emitting high voltages of electricity. [ 142 ]
Electro-Blast : Dick's Escrima sticks are capable of emitting high voltages of electricity. [ 142 ]
Wing Dings
Notes
Dick Grayson was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane , first appearing  in Detective Comics #38 . However, Dick Grayson first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Nightwing (Volume 3) #1 by Eddy Barrows and Kyle Higgins .
Two issues that deal in the origins of Dick Grayson's emergence as Robin in the New 52 slightly conflict. In Nightwing (Volume 3) #0 , Dick found out Bruce's identity as Batman on his own due to their similarities. However, in Secret Origins (Volume 3) #1 , Dick is surprised to find Bruce Wayne is Batman.
Unlike his New Earth counterpart , Dick was only Robin for roughly a year before donning the mantle of Nightwing and became Robin at age sixteen. [ 143 ] [ 144 ] However, given the alterations caused by DC Rebirth , it was changed back so that Dick was Robin for six years from age twelve to eighteen. [ 145 ] [ 146 ] [ 147 ]
During the events of the New 52 , Dick was fifteen when he lost his parents. [ 148 ] But after the events of DC Rebirth , it was changed that he lost his parents when he was a little kid. [ 149 ]
Two issues in DC Rebirth that deal with Dick becoming Nightwing differ in how Batman reacted. In Robin 80th Anniversary 100-Page Super Spectacular #1 Dick decided to quit being Robin and strike out on his own as Nightwing, with Bruce offering him support and approval. However, in Nightwing (Volume 4) #79 , it's shown that Bruce not only didn't approve of Dick's decision to quit being Robin, but also fired Dick as well, leading to the two being on rough terms for a while, similar to Nightwing: Year One in New Earth .
Joker's alias for Dick during The Joker War was spelled a few different ways: Dickyboy, [ 69 ] Dicky-Boy, [ 68 ] and Dicky Boy Grayson. [ 150 ]
Trivia
Dick's parents were killed in August. [ 151 ] [ 152 ]
According to Dick's license during Forever Evil , he was born in 1991. [ 40 ] Dick was 21 years old when he joined Spyral . [ 153 ] Dick is in his mid-twenties while living in Bludhaven . [ 104 ]
Dick was 21 years old when he joined Spyral . [ 153 ]
Dick is in his mid-twenties while living in Bludhaven . [ 104 ]
Dick was named after the childhood friend of his mother, who would one day become the costumed villain Raptor . [ 154 ]
According to his license during Forever Evil , Dick is an organ donor. [ 40 ]
Dick is best friends with Wally West . [ 155 ]
Dick has admitted he's attracted to redheads. [ 28 ]
Superman considers Dick Grayson his favorite Robin. [ 156 ]
Dick is of Romani descent on his mother's side. [ 157 ]
Nightwing was briefly married to Batgirl , but their marriage was quickly annulled. [ 158 ]
Dick became a billionaire after inheriting Alfred Penyworth 's fortune. [ 159 ] He later gave away his entire fortune after setting up a foundation to combat homelessness in Alfred's name. [ 160 ]
During his time as Robin, Batman often referred to Dick as chum, a reference to the '60s Show . Years later, Batman admits that part of the reason he did this was because Dick rarely washed his suit. [ 161 ]
Dick has acknowledged Bruce as "Dad". [ 162 ]
Recommended Reading
As Robin:
Batman and Robin: Year One
Batman/Superman: World's Finest (2022-)
World's Finest: Teen Titans
Robin 80th Anniversary 100-Page Super Spectacular , "A Little Nudge"
As Nightwing and Agent 37:
Nightwing Vol. 3 (2011-2014)
Batman: Night of the Owls
Batman: Death of the Family
Forever Evil
Grayson (2014-2016)
Batman & Robin Eternal (2015-2016)
Robin War
Nightwing Vol. 4 (2016-)
Titans Vol. 3 (2016-2019)
The Joker War
Fear State
Nightwing 2021 Annual
Batman: Shadows of the Bat: The Tower
Teen Titans Academy (2021-2022)
Dark Crisis (2022)
Batman vs. Robin (2022)
Knight Terrors (2023) Knight Terrors: Nightwing Knight Terrors: Robin Knight Terrors: Poison Ivy
Knight Terrors: Nightwing
Knight Terrors: Robin
Knight Terrors: Poison Ivy
Detective Comics by Ram V: Gotham Nocturne (Detective Comics Vol. 1 #1062-1089)
Titans Vol. 4 (2023-)
Titans: Beast World
Absolute Power
Related
1,010 Appearances of Richard Grayson (Prime Earth)
1,040 Images featuring Richard Grayson (Prime Earth)
159 Quotations by or about Richard Grayson (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Richard Grayson (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Detective Comics #1050
↑ Titans (Volume 4) #7
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #116
↑ 4.0 4.1 Nightwing (Volume 4) #80
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 DC Comics Encyclopedia: All-New Edition
↑ DC Comics Encyclopedia: New Edition
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #25
↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.4 8.5 8.6 8.7 8.8 Nightwing (Volume 3) #0
↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 Secret Origins (Volume 3) #1
↑ Batman and Robin Annual (Volume 2) #2
↑ Batman & Robin Eternal #1
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #23
↑ Batgirl (Volume 4) #3
↑ 14.0 14.1 Nightwing Annual (Volume 3) #1
↑ World's Finest: Teen Titans #1
↑ Teen Titans Academy #1
↑ Teen Titans Academy #12
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #12
↑ Forever Evil #3
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #89
↑ 21.0 21.1 Nightwing (Volume 3) #30
↑ Batgirl Annual (Volume 4) #2
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #78
↑ Deathstroke (Volume 4) #19
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #4
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #18
↑ Robin Rises: Omega
↑ 28.0 28.1 28.2 28.3 28.4 Nightwing (Volume 3) #1
↑ 29.0 29.1 Nightwing (Volume 3) #2
↑ 30.0 30.1 30.2 30.3 Nightwing (Volume 3) #6
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #7
↑ 32.0 32.1 32.2 32.3 Nightwing (Volume 3) #8
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #10
↑ 34.0 34.1 Nightwing (Volume 3) #13
↑ 35.0 35.1 Nightwing (Volume 3) #22
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #23
↑ 37.0 37.1 Nightwing (Volume 3) #24
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #27
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #29
↑ 40.0 40.1 40.2 Forever Evil #1
↑ Forever Evil #4
↑ Forever Evil #6
↑ 43.0 43.1 Grayson #5
↑ Grayson #2
↑ Grayson #3
↑ Grayson #4
↑ Grayson #6
↑ Grayson #7
↑ 49.0 49.1 49.2 Grayson #8
↑ 50.0 50.1 Batman (Volume 2) #40
↑ 51.0 51.1 51.2 Grayson #9
↑ Grayson #10
↑ Grayson #11
↑ Nightwing: Rebirth #1
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #1
↑ Titans: Rebirth #1
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #2
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 6) #12
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #29
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #51
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #47
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #55
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #50
↑ Doomsday Clock #9
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #70
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #71
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #72
↑ 68.0 68.1 Nightwing (Volume 4) #73
↑ 69.0 69.1 Nightwing (Volume 4) #74
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #100
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #75
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #78
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #79
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #81
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #83
↑ Teen Titans Academy #1
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #84
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #85
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #86
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #87
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #88
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #90
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #91
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #92
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #93
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #94
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #95
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #96
↑ Dark Crisis #1
↑ Dark Crisis #2
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #5
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #6
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #7
↑ 94.0 94.1 94.2 94.3 94.4 94.5 Nightwing (Volume 4) #104
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #26
↑ 96.0 96.1 96.2 96.3 96.4 Grayson #1
↑ 97.0 97.1 DC Comics: The Ultimate Character Guide: New Edition
↑ Detective Comics #968
↑ Batman & Robin: Year One #1
↑ 100.0 100.1 Batman (Volume 2) #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #51
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #32
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #26
↑ 104.0 104.1 Nightwing (Volume 4) #43
↑ Batman: One Bad Day - Mr. Freeze #1
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #103
↑ Red Hood and the Outlaws #7
↑ 108.0 108.1 Nightwing (Volume 4) #69
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #51
↑ Detective Comics (Volume 2) #36
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #54
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #21
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #1
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #19
↑ Grayson #6
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #30
↑ [1]
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #147
↑ 119.0 119.1 Nightwing (Volume 3) #14
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #81
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #66
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #67
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #76
↑ Dark Crisis #2
↑ Batman vs. Robin #3
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #137
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #100
↑ Knight Terrors: Nightwing #1
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #112
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #129
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #109
↑ Titans: Rebirth #1
↑ Robin & Batman #1
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #34
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #54
↑ Batman vs. Robin #3
↑ Red Hood and the Outlaws #6
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #21
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #15
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #88
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #80
↑ Nightwing (Volume 3) #12
↑ Batman and Robin Annual (Volume 2) #2
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #1
↑ Robin 80th Anniversary 100-Page Super Spectacular #1
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #79
↑ Detective Comics #1027
↑ [ [2] ]
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #54
↑ Red Hood: Outlaw #48
↑ Batman & Robin: Year One #3
↑ Batman & Robin: Year One #4
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #8
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #34
↑ Titans (Volume 3) #15
↑ Superman: Up in the Sky #6
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #82
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal The Last Stories of the DC Universe #1
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #78
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #83
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #55
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #100
This character is or was primarily a member of the superhero team known as the Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Titans members " category.
This character is or was an incarnation of or an ally of Batman , and a member of the Batman Family . This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Batman Family members " category.
This character is or was primarily a member of the younger superhero team known as the Teen Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Teen Titans members " category.
This character is or was a member of one or more of the teams known as the Outsiders . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Outsiders members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
Court of Owls member This character is or was a member of the Court of Owls , a secret society that has controlled Gotham City for centuries, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Court of Owls members " category.

Riddler(disambiguation)
Edward Nygma ( 2011 - Present ) Edward Nygma Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Edward Nygma ( 2011 - Present )
Edward Nigma , Edward Nashton , or Edward Nygma , also known as The Riddler , is a supervillain enemy of Batman who commits crimes revolving around an obsession with riddles. His mental psychosis results in a deep inner need to prove that he's smarter and therefore better than others, which causes him to leave behind clues in otherwise perfect crimes. This psychological compulsion has resulted in him being repeatedly imprisoned in Arkham Asylum . Despite this obvious flaw, he is otherwise an extremely intelligent criminal mastermind. He has been associated with the Legion of Doom and the Secret Society of Super-Villains .
The Riddler was created by Bill Finger and Dick Sprang , first appearing in Detective Comics #140 ( 1948 ).
Contents
1 Related
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Elseworlds 2.6 Alternate Timelines 2.7 Possible Futures
2.1 The New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Elseworlds
2.6 Alternate Timelines
2.7 Possible Futures
3 Other Media
4 Comics
5 Other media titles
6 See Also
Related
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
Comics
Other media titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Riddler
Enigma

Robin(disambiguation)
Current Former Damian Wayne ( 2011 - Present ) Damian Wayne Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes Damian Wayne ( 1985 - 2011 ) Damian Wayne Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Current
Former
Damian Wayne ( 2011 - Present )
Damian Wayne ( 1985 - 2011 )
Robin is the position of Batman ' s sidekick and crimefighting partner, a teenage vigilante who patrols Gotham City armed with intensive martial arts abilities and a number of high-tech gadgets. There have been five as members of the Batman Family in regular continuity. The original Robin was Dick Grayson , a young circus acrobat whose parents had been killed by mobsters. Bruce Wayne witnessed the murders and took him in as his legal ward to guide him through the tragedy and help him find direction. Grayson would eventually outgrow his position and take the name Nightwing . Jason Todd was the second Robin, another orphan, a troubled youth in danger of becoming a street hoodlum until Batman took him in and provided an outlet for his aggression. Jason was murdered by the Joker , a tragedy and failure that haunted Batman for many years. Resurrected during Infinite Crisis , he has since adopted the violent anti-hero persona Red Hood . The third Robin was Tim Drake , notable for seeking the position out instead of being approached for it. He is a great detective himself, and figured out Batman's and Nightwing's secret identities on his own, explaining that Batman needed a Robin to balance him out and prevent him from becoming too dark and gritty. Since then, Drake has become Red Robin to strike out on his own. Stephanie Brown , also known as Spoiler and eventually Batgirl was briefly the fourth and only female Robin, although she was fired for disobeying orders. The fifth and most recent Robin is Damian Wayne , Batman's son with Talia al Ghul , an aggressive child trained by the League of Assassins for years who is being trained as a superhero to help him find redemption. Robin's identity has been associated with a number of teams, including the Teen Titans and Young Justice .
Robin as Dick Grayson was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane , first appearing in Detective Comics #38 . ( 1940 ) Jason Todd first appeared as Robin in Batman #368 . ( 1984 ) Tim Drake became Robin in Batman #457 . ( 1990 ) Stephanie Brown took on the position in Robin #126 . ( 2004 ) Damian Wayne has been Robin since Batman: Battle for the Cowl #3 . ( 2009 )
Contents
1 Clandestine Robins
2 Multiverse 2.1 New 52 Multiverse 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Post-Crisis Multiverse 2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 2.5 Elseworlds 2.6 Alternate Timelines 2.7 Possible Futures
2.1 New 52 Multiverse
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Post-Crisis Multiverse
2.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
2.5 Elseworlds
2.6 Alternate Timelines
2.7 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 DCAU 3.2 Teen Titans TV Series Multiverse 3.3 Batman: The Brave and the Bold 3.4 Lego 3.5 Other
3.1 DCAU
3.2 Teen Titans TV Series Multiverse
3.3 Batman: The Brave and the Bold
3.4 Lego
3.5 Other
4 Comics
Clandestine Robins
Multiverse
New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DCAU
Teen Titans TV Series Multiverse
Batman: The Brave and the Bold
Lego
Other
Comics

Scarecrow(disambiguation)
Jonathan Crane ( 2011 - Present ) Jonathan Crane Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Jonathan Crane ( 2011 - Present )
The Scarecrow is a brilliant psychologist turned supervillain who fights Batman in Gotham City , specializing in techniques and chemicals that manipulate fear. Jonathan Crane was originally a well-respected professor, although he lost credibility when he obsessively took his experiments too far and descended into madness. He spends most of his time in Arkham Asylum and has been a member of the Injustice League , Injustice Gang , Legion of Doom , Secret Society of Super-Villains , Sinestro Corps .
Scarecrow was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane , first appearing in World's Finest #3 ( 1941 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Last 52 Multiverse 1.4 Post-Crisis 1.5 Pre-Crisis 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Alternate Timelines 1.8 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Last 52 Multiverse
1.4 Post-Crisis
1.5 Pre-Crisis
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Alternate Timelines
1.8 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 Lego Dimensions 2.2 Injustice Multiverse 2.3 Arrowverse 2.4 Tomorrowverse 2.5 Others
2.1 Lego Dimensions
2.2 Injustice Multiverse
2.3 Arrowverse
2.4 Tomorrowverse
2.5 Others
3 Comics
4 Other Media Titles
5 See Also
Multiverse
The New 52
Dark Multiverse
Last 52 Multiverse
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
Arrowverse
Tomorrowverse
Others
Comics
Other Media Titles
See Also
Gerald Crane

Shazam (Billy Batson)
Shazam Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name William "Billy" Batson Main Alias Shazam Other Aliases Captain Marvel [ 1 ] [ 2 ] , Robin , King Shazam , The Captain [ 1 ] , Earth's Mightiest Mortal Relatives C.C. Batson (father), Marilyn Batson (mother), Unnamed maternal grandfather Unnamed stepfather, Unnamed half-brother Affiliation Shazam Family , Justice League Unlimited · Formerly Maxwell Lord's Justice League , Robins · Secret Six · Teen Titans Teen Titans Academy Base Of Operations Philadelphia , Rock of Eternity · Formerly Roy Harper Titans Academy , Titans Tower , New York City Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Student · Vigilante · Champion of Magic Characteristics Gender Male Height 5' 4" 6'2", (in adult form) Weight 125 lbs (57 kg) 215lbs, (in adult form) Eyes Blue Hair Black Skin White (King Shazam) Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Bill Parker · C.C. Beck First Appearance Justice League Vol 2  #7 ( May, 2012 )
Shazam
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Skin
Origin
Universe
Creators
Billy Batson is Shazam , a young hero empowered with the gifts of ancient gods and mythological figures by the Wizard . He later changed his name to the Captain after he found out he could no longer say his magic word without transforming.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin and Early Adventures 1.1.1 New 52 Origin 1.1.2 Current Origin and Early Career 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Trinity War 1.2.2 Justice League and the Darkseid War 1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Doomsday Clock 1.3.2 The Seven Magiclands 1.3.3 Secret Six 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Titans Academy 1.4.2 Lazarus Planet
1.1 Origin and Early Adventures 1.1.1 New 52 Origin 1.1.2 Current Origin and Early Career
1.1.1 New 52 Origin
1.1.2 Current Origin and Early Career
1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Trinity War 1.2.2 Justice League and the Darkseid War
1.2.1 Trinity War
1.2.2 Justice League and the Darkseid War
1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Doomsday Clock 1.3.2 The Seven Magiclands 1.3.3 Secret Six
1.3.1 Doomsday Clock
1.3.2 The Seven Magiclands
1.3.3 Secret Six
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Titans Academy 1.4.2 Lazarus Planet
1.4.1 Titans Academy
1.4.2 Lazarus Planet
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
3 Notes
4 Trivia
5 Recommended Reading
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Origin and Early Adventures
New 52 Origin
Billy Batson became an orphan at a young age after his parents, C.C. and Marilyn Batson , died. After the death of his parents, Billy became cold and cruel to most people. Growing selfish and heartless, he went from foster home to foster home until he landed in an orphanage in Philadelphia . At the age of fifteen Billy was placed in the care of Victor and Rosa Vasquez , both former foster children themselves, who had already adopted a number of children.
Billy moved into the Vazquezes' home where he met his new foster-siblings Mary , Freddy , Eugene , Pedro , and Darla . Billy refused to connect to the other children and rejected their attempts to get close to him. The following day, however, Billy stepped in to defend his siblings from bullies who were picking on them at school. That night, he snuck out of the house and was followed by Freddy, and the boys decided to hijack the bullies' father's car. Billy was caught and escaped on an underground train at the metro station.
The train transformed into a gateway to the Rock of Eternity , where Billy met the Wizard . The Wizard searched the boy's soul and saw that he was not perfectly good. When he told him so, Billy was instantly enraged at him for believing that any person is purely good and without flaws. The Wizard accepted Billy's point and looked deeper into his soul. After witnessing all the good Billy had done in his life, the Wizard bestowed his power upon him. With a word, he could transform into the champion, Shazam, and wield the Living Lightning. After granting Billy all of his power, the Wizard died.
At the same time, the ancient champion Black Adam was freed from his prison by Doctor Sivana who, through an accident, gained the ability to see magic with his injured eye. Sivana showed Black Adam the modern world, which Adam was not satisfied with. He started his plans to change the world and, to do that, he left to find the Rock of Eternity. There, he discovered that there was a new champion who Adam was determined to find.
Meanwhile, Billy met up with Freddy. After convincing his foster brother about his newfound superpowers, the duo went out for a night of shenanigans. The two seemed to run into all sorts of trouble, all of which Shazam resolved. He helped a woman when she was being mugged, stopped a bank robbery, and punched out a man who wanted to rob a store. All the while, they tried to use Billy's adult appearance to achieve goals such as getting money to drink beer. A spirit called Francesca appeared in a mirror to warn Shazam of the emergence of Black Adam, but Billy believed he was just hallucinating. Eventually, Billy got into a fight with Freddy after he told him he didn't want to go home or change back into his teenage form, and the two split up.
Shazam faces Black Adam
When he was alone, Shazam was finally found by Black Adam, who attacked him. Billy managed to escape by changing back into his mortal form and hid in the zoo with a tiger he regularly visited called Tawny . Freddy told his foster-siblings what had happened, and they found Billy and convinced him to turn back into Shazam to stop Black Adam. They traveled to the metro station to try to return to the Rock of Eternity.
There, Francesca showed Billy visions of a boy and his family who were enslaved in ancient Kahndaq . The two tried to escape, but in the process, they were found by the Council of Wizards. There, the Wizard decided to grant his power to the boy and give him a connection to the Living Lightning, but he refused and wanted to share it with his injured and dying uncle to save him; a wish the Wizard granted.
Seeing this, Billy thought that Black Adam was the boy, Aman.  Not listening to Francesca's pleas, Billy ran out to meet Black Adam, revealing his mortal form. In an attempt to talk Adam down, Billy tried to appeal to Adam's emotions but was rebuffed. There, Adam revealed that he was not in fact the boy, but the uncle. He killed his nephew when he learned that he did not want to use his powers for revenge.
The Shazam Family
Billy was horrified by this and was saved by his foster family when they drove a car into Black Adam, giving Billy enough time to transform into Shazam. Billy faced his nemesis only to find that Adam had caught his foster siblings. Black Adam ordered Shazam to give him all of his power or he would kill his siblings. Billy remembered a piece of advice the Wizard had told him in his final moments, "Family is what it can be, not what it should be." Shazam realized that this was the secret spell, and he granted all of his siblings the ability to wield the Living Lightning.
They all tried to overpower Black Adam together but were forced to split up when the Seven Deadly Sins , whom Sivana gathered together, were unleashed upon the city. They summoned a demon which started to destroy the city. Shazam and Adam continued their battle while the other Vasquez children fought off the demon and rescued civilians. Shazam and Black Adam arrived at the zoo where Tawny tried to help Billy and attack Adam. Fearing for the tiger's life, Shazam enchanted him, but the spell backfired and broke the balance of his existing enchantments and his siblings instantly started to feel a loss of power.
Knowing that physically he was no match for Black Adam, Billy turned back into his mortal form and started goading Adam to do the same. The old champion did so in rage, unwillingly killing himself. Because he had not changed back in centuries, his mortal form aged hundreds of years in a single moment, causing his body to turn to dust. The Seven Deadly Sins retreated, and the city was saved. In the aftermath, Billy grew closer with his new family.
Following the cosmic upheavals of the Rebirth period, this character's history was revised.  While some version of this encounter may have occurred, it may have been altered.
Current Origin and Early Career
As a young child, Billy Batson was living in Fawcett , a borough of Philadelphia.  Orphaned, he spent time on the streets and in and out of the foster system.  One day, early in the modern age of heroes, [ 3 ] he fell asleep on a subway, and awoke to find himself in the Rock of Eternity .  There, he encountered the uncountably ancient wizard Shazam , who had been seeking somebody pure of heart to pass along his great power to.  Deeming Billy worthy, he chose him, entrusting him to be his champion. [ 1 ]
In turn, Billy was empowered by the Wizard with the ability to transform into a powerful champion with the utterance of a single word- Shazam! .
Though able to transform into the mighty champion Captain Marvel, [ 1 ] he appeared to operate in relative obscurity; Felix Faust, a skilled and knowledgeable sorcerer, would later be hired to attack him as part of a distraction for a larger plot, and despite his knowledge failed to make the connection between being paid to ensure that Billy was unable to speak, the existence of the Fawcett's local hero, and the Wizard Shazam despite knowing that Billy was somehow connected to the Wizard. During this attack, Faust pulled Billy, Superman , and Batman into Hell . [ 3 ] Though they escaped, and the heroes resolved to bring Batson to safety, the Devil Nezha was able to speak through him to threaten Batman and Superman. [ 4 ] Later, he and the Green Lantern attempted to join their fellow heroes in battle with the android NewMazo , but were called off by Batman to keep their opponent from replicating their powers. [ 5 ]
This would not be Billy's last experience in this vein; during his adventures, Billy had several encounters with demons and the underworld, referring to the number of times he had visited as 'too many', citing experience with Satanus , Blaze , and Neron , the last of whom made at least one attempt to claim Billy's soul. [ 6 ]
Though orphaned, Billy's family grew over time.  Encounters with Mary Bromfield and Freddy Freeman resulted in their transformations into heroes in their own right, sharing in the power of SHAZAM! [ 1 ] Eventually, the three joined a larger foster family, consisting of Eugene , Pedro , and Darla , plus parents Victor and Rosa Vasquez .
Batson was also a founding member of Maxwell Lord's Justice League . [ 7 ] Billy eventually stopped using the Captain Marvel name, instead going by Shazam .
New 52
Trinity War
Main article: Trinity War
Constantine steals the power of Shazam
After the defeat of Black Adam, Billy gathered his ashes and kept them in a jar. Understanding his enemy and even growing to respect him, Billy decided to honor him by burying his remains in Kahndaq. Unfortunately, the country was a war zone and no intruders were allowed, and, by deciding to go there, Shazam unwittingly sparked the existing tension between the Justice League, Justice League Dark and Justice League of America .
With all three Leagues in a fight and Shazam without a team, John Constantine lured Billy away from the battle with the promise of knowledge of his real family. Constantine, though, successfully managed to steal Shazam's powers to fight a demon, leaving Billy powerless. Together though, Billy and Constantine managed to kill the demon, and Shazam's powers were returned to him - not without hard feelings though.
Deciding to rejoin the battle for Pandora's Box , Shazam touched the Box himself and was corrupted by the evils within. The Box was wrestled from his hands by the other Leaguers, and Billy was returned to normal. Concluding the battle, the Box was revealed to open a portal to Earth 3 , allowing the Crime Syndicate to enter their world and trap Shazam, as well as most of the other heroes present, inside the Firestorm Matrix as they prepared to dominate the world.
A few days later, Shazam was released from the Firestorm Matrix after the Crime Syndicate were defeated by Lex Luthor and his Injustice League .
Justice League and the Darkseid War
Billy Batson and Shazam
When Grail brought a war between her father Darkseid and the Anti-Monitor to Earth that resulted in her father's death, the effects caused a shockwave in the gods throughout the universe. Billy was then summoned to the center of his powers and learned that he was in fact the God of Gods. The Wizard that originally gave Billy his powers informed him that, because of Darkseid's death, the connection to the gods inside of him was severed. In response, the Wizard replaced the gods inside of Billy with new gods to derive his powers from: S'ivaa , H'ronmeer , Anapel , Zonuz , Atë , Mamaragan.
The Justice League, with Shazam among them, managed to fend off the war on their world after the Anti-Monitor was killed as well. [ 9 ] With the world back to normal, Shazam decided to leave the Justice League.
Rebirth
Doomsday Clock
In the wake of the chaos caused by the Superman Theory , the bulk of the superhero community traveled to Mars to confront Doctor Manhattan . Billy and the rest of the Shazam Family were amongst these heroes. The combined efforts of Earth's heroes were no match for Manhattan, and they were quickly wiped out. [ 10 ]
The Seven Magiclands
Shazam and Lady Shazam on the Funlands
After stopping a robbery at the Museum of the American Revolution, Billy and his Family went to the Rock of Eternity where they found The Station with a map that showed the Magiclands . [ 11 ] The Family entered a train and traveled to the Funlands with Billy hoping to discover more about why they have their powers, instead, they met King Kid , the ruler of the Funlands who claimed to be the Missing Seventh Champion of the Family. [ 12 ]
King Kid explains some of the other lands and how they were nearly destroyed by Mister Mind years ago, Billy told King Kid that he can't choose him as a champion until he really feels it in his heart. [ 13 ] After they mentioned returning home, King Kid had his clowns captured the Family and sent some of them to other lands while both Billy and Mary were taken to The Below to work as slaves of the Funlands. [ 14 ] Billy tried to reason with King Kid, but after he refused Billy freed Mary and took away the gag they put in her mouth to prevent her front saying the magic word, once transformed, they both fought against King Kid and his army. [ 15 ]
Billy and Mary later attempted to go to the other lands in order to rescue their brothers but due to the battle between Black Adam and Doctor Sivana on the Rock of Eternity they instead got transported back to their foster home, there he finds out that his biological father has come back for him. His father explains why he didn't come back for him earlier while Mary reveals to their foster parents that they're the Shazam Family. [ 16 ] In an attempt to rescue his brothers, Billy goes to the Rock of Eternity but ends up being sent to the Darklands where he was briefly reunited with The Wizard who had been resurrected, the wizard tells him that here is an impostor afoot and that he needs to reunite his family. [ 17 ]
Billy reunites with his dad
In the Darklands he meets the ghost of champions, who patrols around the Darklands for anyone who doesn't belong there to send them back to their home before anything happens to them, he tries to ask a favor from Billy but the rest of the Ghost Family stop him and tell Billy that near the Bell Tower, there's a way home, in the tower he finds Freddy and Darla along with a humanoid tiger and they all go back their foster home. Once Billy finds out his father is being attacked by the Seven Deadly Sins and Black Adam he transfers his powers to him making him the seventh champion. [ 18 ] Billy and his father fight the Deadly Sins and Black Adam before they are joined by Mary, when their powers start to fail the Wizard sends the three to the Wozenderlands . There the wizard brings the other members of the Shazam Family and tells Billy that because his heart is torn on who are his real family, the connection that makes him share his powers is not working. Billy doesn't want to choose and claims that because he is the champion he can decide how the spell works, so he manages to share the powers of Shazam through all other six members, something that the Wizard thought it was impossible. [ 19 ]
When Doctor Sivana allows King Kid and the Funlands access to Philadelphia while they unlock the Monsterlands, the Shazam Family goes and stops King Kid's army. [ 20 ] Billy later witnesses the Wizard attacking his father which infuriates him making him turn into Shazam to attack the Wizard, he's soon helped by the rest of his family before sending him back to the Rock of Eternity. When his father is attacked by Black Adam, his father uses a spell to separate Adam's soul from his body, realizing that his father can't possibly know a spell like that, Billy deduces that Mister Mind isn't on Sivana but in his father's body since he arrived, Mister Mind then realizes the Monster Society from the Magiclands on the Earthland. [ 21 ]
Shazam and Black Adam fight Superboy-Prime
After Mister Mind reveals to Billy that his father wasn't looking for him, but was rather a street pickpocket thief, he forces Billy to read a spell that unites all the seven lands, Billy also casts a spell to make himself smaller and fight Mister Mind inside his father's head. [ 22 ] He beats Mind and, in the process, knocks out all the other enemies except for Superboy-Prime , who was trapped in the Monsterlands and was freed after Billy's spell that united the other lands. Prime stops Billy from casting a spell to separate all the other lands, he beats all the other members from the Shazam family but is later punched by Black Adam, both Billy and Adam team up and they manage to take down Prime by summoning both of their lightnings by saying the magic word. He then separates the lands once again, lets his father go after finding out the truth, and takes Superboy to the Justice League. Billy also spares Adam and makes him a new member of the Shazam Family. [ 23 ]
Secret Six
King Shazam fights Batman and Superman
Sometime later, Billy was confronted by the Batman Who Laughs , an evil version of Batman from a dark and twisted universe . The One Who Laughs used a special batarang on Billy, which infected him, turning Billy into a Joker -like version of himself. The Batman Who Laughs tasked Billy with infecting Superman using one of these special batarangs. [ 24 ]
Billy made his way to the Batman Who Laughs's Batcave and awaited the arrival of Superman. Eventually, Superman arrived to the scene with Batman, prompting Billy to immediately transform and attack them. [ 25 ] Although Shazam was more than a match for the pair when they fought one-on-one, he was eventually overwhelmed and forced to retreat without completing his objective. [ 24 ]
In his foster home, the infected Billy rudely began to insult his foster family. After getting into an argument with the Vasquezs, Billy was confronted by Mary who tried to get him to open up to her, but Billy didn't listen, he transformed and flew away, although not before telling Mary that none of them were worthy of being his family. Billy found the Titan Atlas and attacked him in order to test his new limits, leaving the Titan badly beaten.
After meeting multiple gods, King Shazam was intercepted by Mary as Lady Shazam in the middle of his battle with the Greek God of War Ares . Billy fought his foster sister and even got Mary to lower her guard by playing innocent, only so he could punch her in the gut and infect her with the same corruption that was affecting him. [ 26 ]
Billy was returned back to normal along with the other heroes thanks to Lex Luthor cutting off the source of the Dark Metal that infected him. [ 27 ]
Infinite Frontier
Titans Academy
Shazam travels to Hell
Billy eventually became a student at the Titans Academy , there he met Miguel Montez and the two became roommates. [ 28 ] Billy was also experiencing some problems with his powers, as the Rock of Eternity had moved from his usual place and The Wizard was nowhere to be found. During an incident he lost his powers mid-flight and had to be saved by Superman , revealing his identity to everyone at the academy. Billy later got visited by Mary , who told him that Freddy 's condition was getting worse, as he had a debilitating neurological disorder and the Shazam Family lost his powers too. After overhearing from a secret meeting between the Titans and Doctor Fate that the Rock of Eternity was on the Underrealm , Billy decided to go there and was accompanied by Dane . [ 29 ]
They went to the Casino de Dante Carlo and the two separated, Billy later met Amoreena while asking for the location of the Rock of Eternity. Billy and Dane both went into conflict with Sulibak and his gang after Dane cheated on an already-rigged game. While escaping, Billy received help from Amoreena, who revealed she was Sulibak's daughter. He also managed to find the Rock of Eternity; with the source of his powers closer to him, he managed to transform once again and fight Sulibak until his powers started to fail again, though he was saved by Dane. [ 6 ] While the two tried to escape they found Neron , who guided them back to the location of the Rock of Eternity, when Neron tried to betray them, Billy and Dane were saved by Raven . [ 30 ] Shazam decided to enter the Rock of Eternity alone while Raven took Dane back to the Academy, where he met Black Adam, Jr. who talked to him about a potential future where Billy was responsible for the apocalypse. Adam also told Billy that the wizard fell as they ran from Pride , who escaped his containment in the Rock of Eternity. Teth later gave Billy all the surge of power he had and that the wizard wanted to give him, which reinvigorated Shazam's powers, making them stable again. After defeating Pride, Billy and Adam prepared to contain the four riders of the apocalypse to prevent the birth of the Unkindness in a possible future, and that meant for Billy to stay in his Shazam form forever. [ 31 ]
Lazarus Planet
Shazam's power is absorbed by the Wizard
Many people were affected by the Lazarus Resin storm, and Billy was among them. [ 32 ] Mary Marvel and Malik White freed him at the Rock of Eternity. [ 33 ] . The Wizard was infected by the resin as well and worked with Hera to wreak havoc on Earth, so Shazam and Wonder Girl confronted them in Washington, D.C. . [ 34 ] [ 35 ] The Wizard drained and absorbed Billy's powers and imprisoned him, but he escaped captivity with the heroes. [ 36 ] The heroes and the Greek Gods fought and Wonder Woman defeated Hera by absorbing Mary Marvel's power. The Wizard reverted back to normal and restored Billy's powers. [ 37 ] .
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Rock of Eternity Empowerment : Due to the events of Lazarus Planet , circumstances forced Billy to inherit the Wizard Shazam's position as Keeper of the Rock of Eternity, binding him to the magic contain within it, granting him a higher level of magic normally possessed by Mamaragan. He has since used it's powers to make it connected to him. [ 33 ] Reality Alteration : His empowerment of it allows him to manipulate reality. Through force of will, he managed to bind the Rock of Eternity to his being in miniature form instead of the Rock binding him to it. [ 33 ] Conduit of the Living Lightning : Billy was granted the power of the Living Lightning by the Wizard, Mamaragan, containing the distilled aspects of powers bestowed to him by six divine entities from deals brokered by the Wizard himself; these powers are activated by saying the magical word "SHAZAM", in which each letter is the first letter of each god's name combined: Solomon , Hercules , Atlas , Zeus , Achilles and Mercury . Additionally, he is empowered as a Champion of Magic . [ 38 ] Transformation : The Living Lightning transforms Billy Batson into an adult form at his physical and mental peak by verbally saying "SHAZAM". [ 38 ] While transformed, he possesses powers from his benefactors: Wisdom of Solomon : Due to Solomon's blessings, Shazam has instant access to a vast level of scholarly knowledge. Billy describes this ability as a feeling and a moral compass. [ 21 ] Previously, the Wisdom of Solomon manifested through an entity calling themselves "Francesca", in which can directly advise Billy. [ 39 ] Billy's wisdom in his super-powered form was later heightened by Solomon himself, making him vastly more intelligent than before at a cost. [ 40 ] Multilingualism : Through Solomon's wisdom, Shazam can speak any language when transformed. [ 41 ] He has been shown to speak decent Arabic and Japanese. [ 42 ] [ 41 ] Strength of Hercules : Through the blessings of Hercules , Billy is granted superhuman strength comparable to that of a demigod. [ 43 ] His level of strength is comparable to that of Wonder Woman , Superman , and Black Adam . He was able to stop the moon's rapid spinning when it was struck by a Warp Drive. Stamina of Atlas : With the blessings of Atlas, Billy can endure great physical exertion without tiring while in his empowered form. Self-Sustenance : Because of Atlas' blessings, Shazam is able to survive without food, water, or any other sort of sustenance while in his empowered form. Invulnerability : He withstood a punch from an enraged Superman without any noticeable pain and injury afterward [ 44 ] and has clashed with Superboy-Prime without any major damage. [ 23 ] Interstellar Travel : Shazam is immune to the nature of space and is not inhibited by its lack of gravity. He can travel the reaches of space where no human body could possibly survive without the aid of technology or protection. [ 29 ] Power of Zeus : Zeus's power fuels the mystical thunderbolt and grants him numerous abilities. Electrokinesis : Shazam is able to generate and manipulate the "living lightning", which is the magical lightning that transforms him into Shazam. He can project the energy from his fingertips and even use the lightning bolt as a weapon by dodging it and allowing it to strike an opponent or other target. Electro-Blast : Shazam can discharge powerful blasts and arcs of electricity from his hands or his entire body, and attack foes with it. Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form Magic : Zeus's power allows him the potential weave and cast spells at will. [ 43 ] As a Champion of Magic, he can also alter the conditions of certain spells at will. [ 21 ] Much of his magical abilities are derived from a variant of magic from the Book of Champions . [ 22 ] Power Distribution : Known as the "Sharing Spell", Billy can share a portion of his magical powers to those whom he considers truly family, in which their powers may take a different form due to an affinity from whichever aspects best fits them. [ 45 ] Billy later altered the spell's nature in order to facilitate allowing him to grant power to others if it begets a level of internal conflict. [ 21 ] Living Lightning Negation : Like the Wizard, Billy can also negate the Living Lightning from others whom are empowered through a sharing spell from a Chosen Champion, depowering them in the process. [ 46 ] Size Alteration : Shazam has used a spell to shrink down to the size of Mister Mind . [ 22 ] Summoning : By saying "Ala-Ka-Zamm!" Shazam was able to summon a ping-pong table into the Justice League Headquarters. [ 47 ] Thermal-Blast : Through a spell, Shazam was able to ignite a blast of Superboy-Prime 's ice breath into flames and redirect the blast at him. [ 23 ] Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the Multiverse. Shazam was also able to forcibly transport the Wizard to the Rock of Eternity through a bolt of his lightning. [ 21 ] Illusion Casting : Billy can cast various illusions of himself in which are intangible but can project magic. [ 33 ] Courage of Achilles : A psychological-based power that grants Billy a powerful form of inner willpower. This allowed him to withstand the effects of Scarecrow's Fear Toxin while in his adult transformed state by accepting his fears and conquering them through courage and willpower. [ 48 ] Speed of Mercury : Through the blessing of Mercury, Billy possesses superhuman speeds apt enough to be comparable to bolts of lightning, making him capable of running a third of the speed of light. He was also once considered to be faster than Kid Flash . [ 49 ] Flight : Presumably through Mercury, Billy's speed includes making him capable of flight. Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He has even reacted to the likes of Superman in battle. [ 44 ] [ 50 ] Superhuman Agility :  Shazam's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily make sharp turns and maneuver while flying and moving at superhuman speed.
Reality Alteration : His empowerment of it allows him to manipulate reality. Through force of will, he managed to bind the Rock of Eternity to his being in miniature form instead of the Rock binding him to it. [ 33 ]
Conduit of the Living Lightning : Billy was granted the power of the Living Lightning by the Wizard, Mamaragan, containing the distilled aspects of powers bestowed to him by six divine entities from deals brokered by the Wizard himself; these powers are activated by saying the magical word "SHAZAM", in which each letter is the first letter of each god's name combined: Solomon , Hercules , Atlas , Zeus , Achilles and Mercury . Additionally, he is empowered as a Champion of Magic . [ 38 ] Transformation : The Living Lightning transforms Billy Batson into an adult form at his physical and mental peak by verbally saying "SHAZAM". [ 38 ] While transformed, he possesses powers from his benefactors: Wisdom of Solomon : Due to Solomon's blessings, Shazam has instant access to a vast level of scholarly knowledge. Billy describes this ability as a feeling and a moral compass. [ 21 ] Previously, the Wisdom of Solomon manifested through an entity calling themselves "Francesca", in which can directly advise Billy. [ 39 ] Billy's wisdom in his super-powered form was later heightened by Solomon himself, making him vastly more intelligent than before at a cost. [ 40 ] Multilingualism : Through Solomon's wisdom, Shazam can speak any language when transformed. [ 41 ] He has been shown to speak decent Arabic and Japanese. [ 42 ] [ 41 ] Strength of Hercules : Through the blessings of Hercules , Billy is granted superhuman strength comparable to that of a demigod. [ 43 ] His level of strength is comparable to that of Wonder Woman , Superman , and Black Adam . He was able to stop the moon's rapid spinning when it was struck by a Warp Drive. Stamina of Atlas : With the blessings of Atlas, Billy can endure great physical exertion without tiring while in his empowered form. Self-Sustenance : Because of Atlas' blessings, Shazam is able to survive without food, water, or any other sort of sustenance while in his empowered form. Invulnerability : He withstood a punch from an enraged Superman without any noticeable pain and injury afterward [ 44 ] and has clashed with Superboy-Prime without any major damage. [ 23 ] Interstellar Travel : Shazam is immune to the nature of space and is not inhibited by its lack of gravity. He can travel the reaches of space where no human body could possibly survive without the aid of technology or protection. [ 29 ] Power of Zeus : Zeus's power fuels the mystical thunderbolt and grants him numerous abilities. Electrokinesis : Shazam is able to generate and manipulate the "living lightning", which is the magical lightning that transforms him into Shazam. He can project the energy from his fingertips and even use the lightning bolt as a weapon by dodging it and allowing it to strike an opponent or other target. Electro-Blast : Shazam can discharge powerful blasts and arcs of electricity from his hands or his entire body, and attack foes with it. Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form Magic : Zeus's power allows him the potential weave and cast spells at will. [ 43 ] As a Champion of Magic, he can also alter the conditions of certain spells at will. [ 21 ] Much of his magical abilities are derived from a variant of magic from the Book of Champions . [ 22 ] Power Distribution : Known as the "Sharing Spell", Billy can share a portion of his magical powers to those whom he considers truly family, in which their powers may take a different form due to an affinity from whichever aspects best fits them. [ 45 ] Billy later altered the spell's nature in order to facilitate allowing him to grant power to others if it begets a level of internal conflict. [ 21 ] Living Lightning Negation : Like the Wizard, Billy can also negate the Living Lightning from others whom are empowered through a sharing spell from a Chosen Champion, depowering them in the process. [ 46 ] Size Alteration : Shazam has used a spell to shrink down to the size of Mister Mind . [ 22 ] Summoning : By saying "Ala-Ka-Zamm!" Shazam was able to summon a ping-pong table into the Justice League Headquarters. [ 47 ] Thermal-Blast : Through a spell, Shazam was able to ignite a blast of Superboy-Prime 's ice breath into flames and redirect the blast at him. [ 23 ] Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the Multiverse. Shazam was also able to forcibly transport the Wizard to the Rock of Eternity through a bolt of his lightning. [ 21 ] Illusion Casting : Billy can cast various illusions of himself in which are intangible but can project magic. [ 33 ] Courage of Achilles : A psychological-based power that grants Billy a powerful form of inner willpower. This allowed him to withstand the effects of Scarecrow's Fear Toxin while in his adult transformed state by accepting his fears and conquering them through courage and willpower. [ 48 ] Speed of Mercury : Through the blessing of Mercury, Billy possesses superhuman speeds apt enough to be comparable to bolts of lightning, making him capable of running a third of the speed of light. He was also once considered to be faster than Kid Flash . [ 49 ] Flight : Presumably through Mercury, Billy's speed includes making him capable of flight. Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He has even reacted to the likes of Superman in battle. [ 44 ] [ 50 ] Superhuman Agility :  Shazam's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily make sharp turns and maneuver while flying and moving at superhuman speed.
Transformation : The Living Lightning transforms Billy Batson into an adult form at his physical and mental peak by verbally saying "SHAZAM". [ 38 ] While transformed, he possesses powers from his benefactors: Wisdom of Solomon : Due to Solomon's blessings, Shazam has instant access to a vast level of scholarly knowledge. Billy describes this ability as a feeling and a moral compass. [ 21 ] Previously, the Wisdom of Solomon manifested through an entity calling themselves "Francesca", in which can directly advise Billy. [ 39 ] Billy's wisdom in his super-powered form was later heightened by Solomon himself, making him vastly more intelligent than before at a cost. [ 40 ] Multilingualism : Through Solomon's wisdom, Shazam can speak any language when transformed. [ 41 ] He has been shown to speak decent Arabic and Japanese. [ 42 ] [ 41 ] Strength of Hercules : Through the blessings of Hercules , Billy is granted superhuman strength comparable to that of a demigod. [ 43 ] His level of strength is comparable to that of Wonder Woman , Superman , and Black Adam . He was able to stop the moon's rapid spinning when it was struck by a Warp Drive. Stamina of Atlas : With the blessings of Atlas, Billy can endure great physical exertion without tiring while in his empowered form. Self-Sustenance : Because of Atlas' blessings, Shazam is able to survive without food, water, or any other sort of sustenance while in his empowered form. Invulnerability : He withstood a punch from an enraged Superman without any noticeable pain and injury afterward [ 44 ] and has clashed with Superboy-Prime without any major damage. [ 23 ] Interstellar Travel : Shazam is immune to the nature of space and is not inhibited by its lack of gravity. He can travel the reaches of space where no human body could possibly survive without the aid of technology or protection. [ 29 ] Power of Zeus : Zeus's power fuels the mystical thunderbolt and grants him numerous abilities. Electrokinesis : Shazam is able to generate and manipulate the "living lightning", which is the magical lightning that transforms him into Shazam. He can project the energy from his fingertips and even use the lightning bolt as a weapon by dodging it and allowing it to strike an opponent or other target. Electro-Blast : Shazam can discharge powerful blasts and arcs of electricity from his hands or his entire body, and attack foes with it. Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form Magic : Zeus's power allows him the potential weave and cast spells at will. [ 43 ] As a Champion of Magic, he can also alter the conditions of certain spells at will. [ 21 ] Much of his magical abilities are derived from a variant of magic from the Book of Champions . [ 22 ] Power Distribution : Known as the "Sharing Spell", Billy can share a portion of his magical powers to those whom he considers truly family, in which their powers may take a different form due to an affinity from whichever aspects best fits them. [ 45 ] Billy later altered the spell's nature in order to facilitate allowing him to grant power to others if it begets a level of internal conflict. [ 21 ] Living Lightning Negation : Like the Wizard, Billy can also negate the Living Lightning from others whom are empowered through a sharing spell from a Chosen Champion, depowering them in the process. [ 46 ] Size Alteration : Shazam has used a spell to shrink down to the size of Mister Mind . [ 22 ] Summoning : By saying "Ala-Ka-Zamm!" Shazam was able to summon a ping-pong table into the Justice League Headquarters. [ 47 ] Thermal-Blast : Through a spell, Shazam was able to ignite a blast of Superboy-Prime 's ice breath into flames and redirect the blast at him. [ 23 ] Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the Multiverse. Shazam was also able to forcibly transport the Wizard to the Rock of Eternity through a bolt of his lightning. [ 21 ] Illusion Casting : Billy can cast various illusions of himself in which are intangible but can project magic. [ 33 ] Courage of Achilles : A psychological-based power that grants Billy a powerful form of inner willpower. This allowed him to withstand the effects of Scarecrow's Fear Toxin while in his adult transformed state by accepting his fears and conquering them through courage and willpower. [ 48 ] Speed of Mercury : Through the blessing of Mercury, Billy possesses superhuman speeds apt enough to be comparable to bolts of lightning, making him capable of running a third of the speed of light. He was also once considered to be faster than Kid Flash . [ 49 ] Flight : Presumably through Mercury, Billy's speed includes making him capable of flight. Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He has even reacted to the likes of Superman in battle. [ 44 ] [ 50 ] Superhuman Agility :  Shazam's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily make sharp turns and maneuver while flying and moving at superhuman speed.
Wisdom of Solomon : Due to Solomon's blessings, Shazam has instant access to a vast level of scholarly knowledge. Billy describes this ability as a feeling and a moral compass. [ 21 ] Previously, the Wisdom of Solomon manifested through an entity calling themselves "Francesca", in which can directly advise Billy. [ 39 ] Billy's wisdom in his super-powered form was later heightened by Solomon himself, making him vastly more intelligent than before at a cost. [ 40 ] Multilingualism : Through Solomon's wisdom, Shazam can speak any language when transformed. [ 41 ] He has been shown to speak decent Arabic and Japanese. [ 42 ] [ 41 ]
Multilingualism : Through Solomon's wisdom, Shazam can speak any language when transformed. [ 41 ] He has been shown to speak decent Arabic and Japanese. [ 42 ] [ 41 ]
Strength of Hercules : Through the blessings of Hercules , Billy is granted superhuman strength comparable to that of a demigod. [ 43 ] His level of strength is comparable to that of Wonder Woman , Superman , and Black Adam . He was able to stop the moon's rapid spinning when it was struck by a Warp Drive.
Stamina of Atlas : With the blessings of Atlas, Billy can endure great physical exertion without tiring while in his empowered form. Self-Sustenance : Because of Atlas' blessings, Shazam is able to survive without food, water, or any other sort of sustenance while in his empowered form. Invulnerability : He withstood a punch from an enraged Superman without any noticeable pain and injury afterward [ 44 ] and has clashed with Superboy-Prime without any major damage. [ 23 ] Interstellar Travel : Shazam is immune to the nature of space and is not inhibited by its lack of gravity. He can travel the reaches of space where no human body could possibly survive without the aid of technology or protection. [ 29 ]
Self-Sustenance : Because of Atlas' blessings, Shazam is able to survive without food, water, or any other sort of sustenance while in his empowered form.
Invulnerability : He withstood a punch from an enraged Superman without any noticeable pain and injury afterward [ 44 ] and has clashed with Superboy-Prime without any major damage. [ 23 ]
Interstellar Travel : Shazam is immune to the nature of space and is not inhibited by its lack of gravity. He can travel the reaches of space where no human body could possibly survive without the aid of technology or protection. [ 29 ]
Power of Zeus : Zeus's power fuels the mystical thunderbolt and grants him numerous abilities. Electrokinesis : Shazam is able to generate and manipulate the "living lightning", which is the magical lightning that transforms him into Shazam. He can project the energy from his fingertips and even use the lightning bolt as a weapon by dodging it and allowing it to strike an opponent or other target. Electro-Blast : Shazam can discharge powerful blasts and arcs of electricity from his hands or his entire body, and attack foes with it. Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form Magic : Zeus's power allows him the potential weave and cast spells at will. [ 43 ] As a Champion of Magic, he can also alter the conditions of certain spells at will. [ 21 ] Much of his magical abilities are derived from a variant of magic from the Book of Champions . [ 22 ] Power Distribution : Known as the "Sharing Spell", Billy can share a portion of his magical powers to those whom he considers truly family, in which their powers may take a different form due to an affinity from whichever aspects best fits them. [ 45 ] Billy later altered the spell's nature in order to facilitate allowing him to grant power to others if it begets a level of internal conflict. [ 21 ] Living Lightning Negation : Like the Wizard, Billy can also negate the Living Lightning from others whom are empowered through a sharing spell from a Chosen Champion, depowering them in the process. [ 46 ] Size Alteration : Shazam has used a spell to shrink down to the size of Mister Mind . [ 22 ] Summoning : By saying "Ala-Ka-Zamm!" Shazam was able to summon a ping-pong table into the Justice League Headquarters. [ 47 ] Thermal-Blast : Through a spell, Shazam was able to ignite a blast of Superboy-Prime 's ice breath into flames and redirect the blast at him. [ 23 ] Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the Multiverse. Shazam was also able to forcibly transport the Wizard to the Rock of Eternity through a bolt of his lightning. [ 21 ] Illusion Casting : Billy can cast various illusions of himself in which are intangible but can project magic. [ 33 ]
Electrokinesis : Shazam is able to generate and manipulate the "living lightning", which is the magical lightning that transforms him into Shazam. He can project the energy from his fingertips and even use the lightning bolt as a weapon by dodging it and allowing it to strike an opponent or other target. Electro-Blast : Shazam can discharge powerful blasts and arcs of electricity from his hands or his entire body, and attack foes with it.
Electro-Blast : Shazam can discharge powerful blasts and arcs of electricity from his hands or his entire body, and attack foes with it.
Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form
Magic : Zeus's power allows him the potential weave and cast spells at will. [ 43 ] As a Champion of Magic, he can also alter the conditions of certain spells at will. [ 21 ] Much of his magical abilities are derived from a variant of magic from the Book of Champions . [ 22 ] Power Distribution : Known as the "Sharing Spell", Billy can share a portion of his magical powers to those whom he considers truly family, in which their powers may take a different form due to an affinity from whichever aspects best fits them. [ 45 ] Billy later altered the spell's nature in order to facilitate allowing him to grant power to others if it begets a level of internal conflict. [ 21 ] Living Lightning Negation : Like the Wizard, Billy can also negate the Living Lightning from others whom are empowered through a sharing spell from a Chosen Champion, depowering them in the process. [ 46 ] Size Alteration : Shazam has used a spell to shrink down to the size of Mister Mind . [ 22 ] Summoning : By saying "Ala-Ka-Zamm!" Shazam was able to summon a ping-pong table into the Justice League Headquarters. [ 47 ] Thermal-Blast : Through a spell, Shazam was able to ignite a blast of Superboy-Prime 's ice breath into flames and redirect the blast at him. [ 23 ] Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the Multiverse. Shazam was also able to forcibly transport the Wizard to the Rock of Eternity through a bolt of his lightning. [ 21 ] Illusion Casting : Billy can cast various illusions of himself in which are intangible but can project magic. [ 33 ]
Power Distribution : Known as the "Sharing Spell", Billy can share a portion of his magical powers to those whom he considers truly family, in which their powers may take a different form due to an affinity from whichever aspects best fits them. [ 45 ] Billy later altered the spell's nature in order to facilitate allowing him to grant power to others if it begets a level of internal conflict. [ 21 ]
Living Lightning Negation : Like the Wizard, Billy can also negate the Living Lightning from others whom are empowered through a sharing spell from a Chosen Champion, depowering them in the process. [ 46 ]
Size Alteration : Shazam has used a spell to shrink down to the size of Mister Mind . [ 22 ]
Summoning : By saying "Ala-Ka-Zamm!" Shazam was able to summon a ping-pong table into the Justice League Headquarters. [ 47 ]
Thermal-Blast : Through a spell, Shazam was able to ignite a blast of Superboy-Prime 's ice breath into flames and redirect the blast at him. [ 23 ]
Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the Multiverse. Shazam was also able to forcibly transport the Wizard to the Rock of Eternity through a bolt of his lightning. [ 21 ]
Illusion Casting : Billy can cast various illusions of himself in which are intangible but can project magic. [ 33 ]
Courage of Achilles : A psychological-based power that grants Billy a powerful form of inner willpower. This allowed him to withstand the effects of Scarecrow's Fear Toxin while in his adult transformed state by accepting his fears and conquering them through courage and willpower. [ 48 ]
Speed of Mercury : Through the blessing of Mercury, Billy possesses superhuman speeds apt enough to be comparable to bolts of lightning, making him capable of running a third of the speed of light. He was also once considered to be faster than Kid Flash . [ 49 ] Flight : Presumably through Mercury, Billy's speed includes making him capable of flight. Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He has even reacted to the likes of Superman in battle. [ 44 ] [ 50 ] Superhuman Agility :  Shazam's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily make sharp turns and maneuver while flying and moving at superhuman speed.
Flight : Presumably through Mercury, Billy's speed includes making him capable of flight.
Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He has even reacted to the likes of Superman in battle. [ 44 ] [ 50 ]
Superhuman Agility :  Shazam's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily make sharp turns and maneuver while flying and moving at superhuman speed.
Divine Empowerment : As a result of Darkseid's death, his connection to the previous gods that granted Billy his powers was lost which removed all of his original powers, and new gods were contracted by the wizard to take their place so as to not leave Billy powerless. [ 51 ] The abilities included power drawn from the S'ivaa (Strength), H'ronmeer (Fires), Anapel (Compassion), Zonuz /Yuga Khan (Source Manipulation), Atë (Boldness), and the Wizard Mamaragan (Lightning). [ 52 ] Strength of S'ivaa : With the might of the Old World Elemental, Billy's physical strength reaches well beyond the physical scale. S'ivaa has stated that the strength of Hercules was nothing compared to his, making Billy even more powerful as Superman , a foe he once went toe-to-toe with. Justice League: The Darkseid War: Shazam! #1 Super-Leaping : Using the shadow element's blessing, Billy is able to use his strong leg muscles to leap far distances in a single bound. [ 52 ] The Fires of H'ronmeer : The blessings of H'ronmeer the Martian God of Fire grant him the power over fire, death, and recreation. [ 53 ] Thermal-Blast : Billy was capable of breathing out a large blast of flames. [ 53 ] Compassion of Anapel : With empathy from the Siberian goddess Anapel, Shazam has instant access to a vast level of scholarly knowledge. Clairvoyance : The blessing of Anapel gives Billy clairvoyance and provides him with counsel and advice in times of need. Divine Grace : The Compassion of Anapel allows perfect and godlike finesse in actions and dealings with others. Eidetic Memory : Batson is capable of memorizing anything he sees. Tactics of War : Through Anapel's blessings, Billy is an accomplished social intuit. Source Manipulation of Zonuz : Replacing the lost power of Zeus during the Darkseid War, Billy was partitioned the almighty energy of the Old God of Evil; Zonuz or, as he would later go by, Yuga Khan of the Third World. His power is used to back and embolden the powers of Billy's six gods by drawing upon the energies from the Source itself. Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the multiverse. Through this, he can also enter and exit The Source of all things, where all gods go after they've passed. [ 52 ] Boldness of Atë : Atë's blessing gives Billy superhuman amounts of inner strength to draw off from, while also making him indestructible to harm. He is able to withstand the Antimatter Blasts of Mobius's Shadow Demons . Only the most powerful of superhumans or most ancient of magical powers can topple him. [ 53 ] Indomitable Will : Because of Atë's blessing, Shazam is very strong-willed in his actions. Immortality : As long as he remains in his empowered form he doesn't age. Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He is able to move, think, and react fast enough to dodge the blade of Yuga Khan in pitched battle. [ 52 ] Mystic Lightning of Mamaragan : Through the power of the Wizard and aboriginal deity known as Mamaragan, Billy retains the magical power of his patron namesake. Not only does the lightning enable him to transform and enhance his other physical abilities, but it also allows for inter-dimensional travel and the casting of various mystical spells. Accelerated Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form. Divine Distribution : As Shazam, Batson can share a portion of his magical powers with anyone akin to a family that he so chooses, giving both similar and different powers of their own based on their personalities. [ 45 ] Electrokinesis : Shazam has the ability to control electricity like Mamaragan himself. Electro-Blast : He can discharge a powerful blast of electricity from his body and attack foes with it. Teleportation : Shazam showcased this when rushing to a battle from S.T.A.R. Labs to Metropolis . [ 54 ]
Strength of S'ivaa : With the might of the Old World Elemental, Billy's physical strength reaches well beyond the physical scale. S'ivaa has stated that the strength of Hercules was nothing compared to his, making Billy even more powerful as Superman , a foe he once went toe-to-toe with. Justice League: The Darkseid War: Shazam! #1 Super-Leaping : Using the shadow element's blessing, Billy is able to use his strong leg muscles to leap far distances in a single bound. [ 52 ]
Super-Leaping : Using the shadow element's blessing, Billy is able to use his strong leg muscles to leap far distances in a single bound. [ 52 ]
The Fires of H'ronmeer : The blessings of H'ronmeer the Martian God of Fire grant him the power over fire, death, and recreation. [ 53 ] Thermal-Blast : Billy was capable of breathing out a large blast of flames. [ 53 ]
Thermal-Blast : Billy was capable of breathing out a large blast of flames. [ 53 ]
Compassion of Anapel : With empathy from the Siberian goddess Anapel, Shazam has instant access to a vast level of scholarly knowledge. Clairvoyance : The blessing of Anapel gives Billy clairvoyance and provides him with counsel and advice in times of need. Divine Grace : The Compassion of Anapel allows perfect and godlike finesse in actions and dealings with others. Eidetic Memory : Batson is capable of memorizing anything he sees. Tactics of War : Through Anapel's blessings, Billy is an accomplished social intuit.
Clairvoyance : The blessing of Anapel gives Billy clairvoyance and provides him with counsel and advice in times of need.
Divine Grace : The Compassion of Anapel allows perfect and godlike finesse in actions and dealings with others.
Eidetic Memory : Batson is capable of memorizing anything he sees.
Tactics of War : Through Anapel's blessings, Billy is an accomplished social intuit.
Source Manipulation of Zonuz : Replacing the lost power of Zeus during the Darkseid War, Billy was partitioned the almighty energy of the Old God of Evil; Zonuz or, as he would later go by, Yuga Khan of the Third World. His power is used to back and embolden the powers of Billy's six gods by drawing upon the energies from the Source itself. Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the multiverse. Through this, he can also enter and exit The Source of all things, where all gods go after they've passed. [ 52 ]
Dimensional Travel : Shazam can access the Rock of Eternity whenever he wants, which sits at the center of the multiverse. Through this, he can also enter and exit The Source of all things, where all gods go after they've passed. [ 52 ]
Boldness of Atë : Atë's blessing gives Billy superhuman amounts of inner strength to draw off from, while also making him indestructible to harm. He is able to withstand the Antimatter Blasts of Mobius's Shadow Demons . Only the most powerful of superhumans or most ancient of magical powers can topple him. [ 53 ] Indomitable Will : Because of Atë's blessing, Shazam is very strong-willed in his actions. Immortality : As long as he remains in his empowered form he doesn't age. Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He is able to move, think, and react fast enough to dodge the blade of Yuga Khan in pitched battle. [ 52 ]
Indomitable Will : Because of Atë's blessing, Shazam is very strong-willed in his actions.
Immortality : As long as he remains in his empowered form he doesn't age.
Superhuman Reflexes : Shazam's reflexes are heightened to superhuman levels. He is able to move, think, and react fast enough to dodge the blade of Yuga Khan in pitched battle. [ 52 ]
Mystic Lightning of Mamaragan : Through the power of the Wizard and aboriginal deity known as Mamaragan, Billy retains the magical power of his patron namesake. Not only does the lightning enable him to transform and enhance his other physical abilities, but it also allows for inter-dimensional travel and the casting of various mystical spells. Accelerated Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form. Divine Distribution : As Shazam, Batson can share a portion of his magical powers with anyone akin to a family that he so chooses, giving both similar and different powers of their own based on their personalities. [ 45 ] Electrokinesis : Shazam has the ability to control electricity like Mamaragan himself. Electro-Blast : He can discharge a powerful blast of electricity from his body and attack foes with it. Teleportation : Shazam showcased this when rushing to a battle from S.T.A.R. Labs to Metropolis . [ 54 ]
Accelerated Healing : He displayed the ability to use the transformative lightning to heal others or himself instantly from wounds inflicted on his mortal form.
Divine Distribution : As Shazam, Batson can share a portion of his magical powers with anyone akin to a family that he so chooses, giving both similar and different powers of their own based on their personalities. [ 45 ]
Electrokinesis : Shazam has the ability to control electricity like Mamaragan himself. Electro-Blast : He can discharge a powerful blast of electricity from his body and attack foes with it.
Electro-Blast : He can discharge a powerful blast of electricity from his body and attack foes with it.
Teleportation : Shazam showcased this when rushing to a battle from S.T.A.R. Labs to Metropolis . [ 54 ]
Abilities
Occultism : Overtime, Billy has memorized some spells from the Book of Champions . [ 22 ] He has also been mentored by both the Wizard Shazam [ 54 ] and Raven in the mystic arts. [ 55 ]
Charisma : Billy has enough charisma to host a YouTube channel of his own with over 2,000 subscribers. [ 56 ]
Hand-to-Hand Combatant
Weaknesses
Inexperience : Despite possessing incredible abilities in his superpowered form, Billy still lacks skill and experience as a crime fighter. He also doesn't really understand the true extent of his mystical abilities. Both of these factors often render him overwhelmed when faced with stronger and more experienced opponents. [ 45 ]
Vocal reliance : The spell that allows Billy to transform into Shazam is purely vocal. Therefore, if he is prevented from speaking, such as being gagged, he will not be able to transform.
Cost of Magic : Solomon 's heightening of his wisdom powers further the division between his super-powered and human self already manifested within Billy's mind, creating unknown dangers to his transformations. [ 40 ]
Notes
Billy Batson was created by Bill Parker and C.C. Beck , first appearing  in Whiz Comics #2 . However, Billy Batson first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Justice League (Volume 2) #7 by Geoff Johns and Gary Frank .
Shazam (Billy Batson) appears as Shazam (Prime) a playable character in the Infinite Crisis video game.
Originally, Billy's origin took place concurrently with the then-ongoing Justice League title; however, following the various cosmic upheavals that ended in Death Metal , references to pre-Flashpoint events that he participated in would seem to make that impossible.
Trivia
Originally, Billy's ability to transform happened when he mentally intended to do so rather than simply saying the word. [ 43 ] Due to Nezha's interference with magic during the events of Lazarus Planet, Billy's transformation happens upon saying the word regardless of circumstances. [ 1 ]
Billy views his Shazam form as a separate entity rather than an extension of himself. [ 40 ]
Billy bears a striking resemblance to Black Adam 's deceased nephew, Aman. [ 57 ]
As of DC Rebirth , Billy commented to being 15 years old. [ 58 ]
As a content creator (Not Shazam) on YouTube, Billy's page has over 2.71K subscribers. He hosts a fan casts which chronicles his adventures as a superhero under the guise of a fan of the Captain in hopes of inspiring others towards kindness. [ 56 ] Billy dislikes the term "content provider". [ 59 ]
Billy dislikes the term "content provider". [ 59 ]
Recommended Reading
Justice League (Volume  2)
Shazam! (Volume  3)
The Infected: King Shazam #1
Shazam! (Volume  4)
Shazam! (Volume  5)
Related
262 Appearances of Shazam (Billy Batson)
239 Images featuring Shazam (Billy Batson)
18 Quotations by or about Shazam (Billy Batson)
Character Gallery: Shazam (Billy Batson)
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Shazam! (Volume 5) #1
↑ Teen Titans Academy #11
↑ 3.0 3.1 Batman/Superman: World's Finest #2
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #3
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #17
↑ 6.0 6.1 Shazam! (Volume 4) #2
↑ Blue & Gold #4
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #35 - 39
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #50
↑ Doomsday Clock #9
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #1
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #2
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #3
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #4
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #5
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #6
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #7
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #8
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #9
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #10
↑ 21.0 21.1 21.2 21.3 21.4 Shazam! (Volume 3) #11
↑ 22.0 22.1 22.2 22.3 Shazam! (Volume 3) #13
↑ 23.0 23.1 23.2 Shazam! (Volume 3) #14
↑ 24.0 24.1 Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #2
↑ Batman/Superman (Volume 2) #1
↑ The Infected: King Shazam #1
↑ Year of the Villain: Hell Arisen #4
↑ Teen Titans Academy #1
↑ 29.0 29.1 Shazam! (Volume 4) #1
↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #3
↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #4
↑ Lazarus Planet: Alpha #1
↑ 33.0 33.1 33.2 33.3 Lazarus Planet: We Once Were Gods #1
↑ Lazarus Planet: Revenge of the Gods #1
↑ Lazarus Planet: Revenge of the Gods #2
↑ Lazarus Planet: Revenge of the Gods #3
↑ Lazarus Planet: Revenge of the Gods #4
↑ 38.0 38.1 DC Comics Encyclopedia: New Edition
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #15
↑ 40.0 40.1 40.2 Shazam! (Volume 5) #6
↑ 41.0 41.1 Shazam! (Volume 3) #15
↑ Black Adam: Year of the Villain #1
↑ 43.0 43.1 43.2 Justice League (Volume 2) #0
↑ 44.0 44.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #7
↑ 45.0 45.1 45.2 Justice League (Volume 2) #21
↑ Strange Love Adventures #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #31
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #12
↑ DC Nation (Volume 2) #2
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #22
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #44
↑ 52.0 52.1 52.2 52.3 Justice League: The Darkseid War: Shazam! #1
↑ 53.0 53.1 53.2 Justice League Darkseid War Shazam #1
↑ 54.0 54.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #34
↑ Shazam! (Volume 4) #1
↑ 56.0 56.1 Shazam! (Volume 5) #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #20
↑ Shazam! (Volume 3) #3
↑ Shazam! (Volume 5) #9
Beautia Sivana • Black Adam • Black Marvel Family • Bulletman • Captain Marvel, Jr. • C.C. Batson • Darla Dudley • Ebenezer Batson • Eugene Choi • Fat Marvel • Freckles Marvel • Gods of Olympus • Hill Marvel • Hoppy the Marvel Bunny • Isis • Kid Eternity • Lords of Magic • Magnificus Sivana • Marilyn Batson • Mary Marvel • Minute-Man • Nick Bromfield • Nora Bromfield • Osiris • Pedro Peña • Shazam ( Jebediah of Canaan • Mamaragan ) • Sinclair Batson • Spy Smasher • Steamboat • Sterling Morris • Mr. Tawky Tawny • Tall Marvel • Tanist • Uncle Marvel
America's Greatest Comics (Volume  1) • Billy Batson and the Magic of Shazam! (Volume  1) • Captain Marvel Adventures (Volume  1) • Day of Vengeance (Volume  1) • Marvel Family (Volume  1) • Master Comics (Volume  1) • The Power of Shazam! (Volume  1) • Shazam!: The Monster Society of Evil (Volume  1) • Shazam! (Volume  1) • Shazam! (Volume  2) • Shazam! (Volume  3) • Shazam!: The New Beginning (Volume  1) • Superman/Shazam!: First Thunder (Volume  1) • The Trials of Shazam! (Volume  1) • Whiz Comics (Volume  1) • World's Finest (Volume  1) • Wow Comics (Volume  1)
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Marvel Family in any of its various incarnations, and an ally of Captain Marvel and the Wizard Shazam . This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Marvel Family members ."
This character is or was primarily a member of the younger superhero team known as the Teen Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Teen Titans members " category.

Sinestro(disambiguation)
Thaal Sinestro ( 2011 - Present ) Thaal Sinestro Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Thaal Sinestro ( 2011 - Present )
Thaal Sinestro of the planet Korugar in Sector 1417 is an intergalactic super-villain and antagonist of Green Lantern , particularly Hal Jordan . Originally known as the greatest member of the Green Lantern Corps ever to wield a ring , he trained many students including Hal Jordan. The Guardians of the Universe exiled him to the Antimatter Universe after learning he had used his power to set up a dictatorship. Having fought the Green Lanterns for many years with a yellow ring forged by the Weaponers of Qward , he established his own Sinestro Corps to spread fear throughout the universe. He has also been a member of the Injustice League , the Secret Society of Super-Villains , and a founding member of the Legion of Doom .
Sinestro was created by John Broome and Gil Kane , first appearing in Green Lantern (Volume 2) #7 ( 1961 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Post-Crisis 1.4 Pre-Crisis 1.5 Elseworlds 1.6 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Post-Crisis
1.4 Pre-Crisis
1.5 Elseworlds
1.6 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 The Brave and the Bold Multiverse 2.2 Lego Dimensions 2.3 Injustice Multiverse 2.4 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 2.5 Others
2.1 The Brave and the Bold Multiverse
2.2 Lego Dimensions
2.3 Injustice Multiverse
2.4 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
2.5 Others
3 Comics
4 See Also
Multiverse
The New 52
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Possible Futures
Other Media
The Brave and the Bold Multiverse
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Sinestro Titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Sinestro
Sinistro
Sinestra
Green Lantern
Yellow Lantern
Ultraviolet Lantern

Starfire(disambiguation)
Koriand'r ( 2011 - Present ) Koriand'r Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Koriand'r ( 2011 - Present )
Starfire is an alien superhero with powers of flight and energy projection. Born a princess on the planet Tamaran , she escaped execution at the hands of her older sister Blackfire and traveled to Earth. Meeting the Teen Titans , she became a charter member and stayed with the team for most of her career. Her culture's different standards of intimacy cause her to be extremely open and sexually liberated by human standards. She has also been a member of the Justice League , Outlaws , Outsiders , and R.E.B.E.L.S. .
Starfire was created by Marv Wolfman and George Pérez , first appearing in DC Comics Presents #26 ( 1980 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Post-Crisis 1.4 Pre-Crisis 1.5 Elseworlds 1.6 Possible futures
1.1 The New 52
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Post-Crisis
1.4 Pre-Crisis
1.5 Elseworlds
1.6 Possible futures
2 Other media 2.1 Teen Titans TV Multiverse 2.2 Lego Dimensions 2.3 Injustice Multiverse 2.4 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 2.5 Others
2.1 Teen Titans TV Multiverse
2.2 Lego Dimensions
2.3 Injustice Multiverse
2.4 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
2.5 Others
3 Comics
Multiverse
The New 52
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Possible futures
Other media
Teen Titans TV Multiverse
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Starfire Titles

Starro (Prime Earth)
Starro Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Star-∅ Main Alias Starro Other Aliases Starro the Conqueror, The Flaming Star, The Black Star Relatives Jarro (clone) Affiliation Formely Justice League: Team Mystery · Secret Society of Super-Villains Base Of Operations Mobile Status Alignment Neutral Identity Public Identity Race Star Conqueror Occupation Celestial Conqueror Characteristics Gender Genderless Eyes Red Hair No Hair Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Gardner Fox · Mike Sekowsky First Appearance Justice League Vol 2  #6 ( April, 2012 )
Starro
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Race
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Starro is an alien conqueror who uses spores to force people into obedience.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin 1.2 Death 1.3 Dark Nights: Metal
1.1 Origin
1.2 Death
1.3 Dark Nights: Metal
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers
2.1 Powers
3 Notes
4 Trivia
5 Related 5.1 Footnotes
5.1 Footnotes
History
Origin
Starro battles The first line-up of The Justice League!
Death
Sometime before the events of Metal, Starro faced off against Mister Terrific and was apparently killed by him. But according to Starro, he had psyched him out and regrew himself from a piece of his Tentaclaw. From that incident Starro gained the ability to no longer need his ' psychic face-spores' to control minds, now only needing his will and his giant eyeball.
Dark Nights: Metal
Starro was active on Thanagar Prime during the invasion of the Dark Multiverse , where heroes Mister Terrific and Green Lantern came looking for more Nth Metal to defeat the Dark Knights. Starro worked with Onimar Synn and helped imprison the Justice Leaguers on Thanager Prime, until they escaped with help from Martian Manhunter and defeated Starro and Onimar.
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Unique Physiology Bio-Fission [ 1 ] Size Alteration [ 2 ] Flight [ 1 ] Regeneration [ 3 ] Telepathy [ 3 ] Mind Control [ 1 ]
Bio-Fission [ 1 ]
Size Alteration [ 2 ]
Flight [ 1 ]
Regeneration [ 3 ]
Telepathy [ 3 ] Mind Control [ 1 ]
Mind Control [ 1 ]
Notes
Starro was created by Gardner Fox and Mike Sekowsky , first appearing  in The Brave and the Bold #28 . However, Starro first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Justice League (Volume 2) #6 by Geoff Johns and Jim Lee .
Trivia
Starro has five butts. [ 4 ]
Starro is stated to be an asexual being. [ 5 ]
Related
71 Appearances of Starro (Prime Earth)
22 Images featuring Starro (Prime Earth)
Quotations by or about Starro (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Starro (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #8
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #29
↑ 3.0 3.1 Dark Nights: Metal #4
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #5
↑ Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps #8
This character has been primarily an enemy of the Justice League , in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Justice League Villains ."
Secret Society of Super-Villains member This character is or was a member of the Secret Society of Super-Villains , a cadre of super-villains who band together to accomplish feats no one super-villain can do alone, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Secret Society of Super-Villains members " category.
This character has been an enemy of the Green Lantern of Earth, or the Green Lantern Corps as a whole. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Green Lantern Villains ."
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.

Stephanie Brown (Prime Earth)
Batgirl Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Stephanie Brown Main Alias Batgirl Other Aliases Spoiler · Robin [ 1 ] · Girl-Bat Relatives Arthur Brown (father) · Crystal Brown (mother) Affiliation Batgirls , Batman Family , Justice League Unlimited , Young Justice · Formerly Gotham Knights Base Of Operations The Hill , Gotham City Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Vigilante Characteristics Gender Female Height 5' 5" Weight 110 lbs (50 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Blond Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Chuck Dixon · Tom Lyle First Appearance Batman Vol 2  #28 ( April, 2014 )
Batgirl
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Stephanie Brown is the vigilante Batgirl , forming one half of the Batgirls with Cassandra Cain . Daughter of the villain Cluemaster , she fought criminals like her father as Spoiler , before a brief stint as Batman 's crime-fighting partner Robin . She is a member of the Batman Family and Young Justice .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Batman Eternal 1.2.2 Catwoman and Batgirl 1.2.3 Batman & Robin Eternal 1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Gotham Knights 1.3.2 Young Justice 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 The Batgirls 1.4.2 Fear State
1.1 Early Life
1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Batman Eternal 1.2.2 Catwoman and Batgirl 1.2.3 Batman & Robin Eternal
1.2.1 Batman Eternal
1.2.2 Catwoman and Batgirl
1.2.3 Batman & Robin Eternal
1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Gotham Knights 1.3.2 Young Justice
1.3.1 Gotham Knights
1.3.2 Young Justice
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 The Batgirls 1.4.2 Fear State
1.4.1 The Batgirls
1.4.2 Fear State
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Abilities
2.1 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Early Life
Stephanie Brown was born to Crystal Brown and Cluemaster (Arthur Brown) . She grew up ignorant of her father's other life. One night she woke up when she heard a loud noise, only to see Batman with his hands on her father's throat. Batman saw her and decided not to take Arthur in. Stephanie convinced herself it was all just a dream. [ 2 ] At some point later on in her life, her parents would divorce.
New 52
Batman Eternal
While returning home, Stephanie accidentally walked in on her father and several other men talking about their criminal plans. After she fled for her life, Stephanie decided to make it her mission to "spoil" her father's plans. [ 3 ] This lead to her becoming a vigilante and taking the mantle of "Spoiler". She started off by spreading her father's actions via the internet. Eventually she would make her presence known to the criminals by cladding herself in purple garb. She found herself receiving aid from both Barbara Gordon and Selina Kyle [ 4 ] .
Catwoman and Batgirl
In the wake of her debut as Spoiler during her father's campaign against Batman, Steph sought out training from Catwoman (Selina Kyle) and Batgirl .
Batman & Robin Eternal
When the leader of an assassin group known as Mother attacked the Robins and Harper Row , Stephanie assisted the Robins and Cassandra Cain in their efforts to defeat Mother.
Rebirth
Gotham Knights
Spoiler as a Gotham Knight
Batman and Batwoman invited Stephanie, who was then dating Tim Drake , to join their new team of superheroes. [ 5 ] As part of this group, Stephanie, along with her fellow vigilantes, fought Jake Cane and the Colony , a secret military group that struck down criminal elements using lethal force. In this conflict, Tim Drake "died". [ 6 ]
Shaken by Tim's apparent death, Spoiler rejected Batman's philosophy and struck out on her own. [ 7 ] However, she discovered more and more that she used Batman's methods, even when teaming up with Anarky . When Tim returned from Mr. Oz's captivity, she briefly rejoined the Gotham Knights, but left again in the face of Tim's deception and increasing instability, and Clayface's death at Batwoman's hands. When Ulysses Hadrian Armstrong tried to take over Gotham with Brother Eye , Batman and Cassandra Cain asked Steph for help, and she reluctantly returned. Her assistance proved invaluable, as Brother Eye attempted to discourage her by showing her the alternate future from Titans Tomorrow , in which Steph and Cass were both Batgirls, and Steph herself was also Robin. [ 8 ] Using this timeline, Steph convinced the OMAC -controlled Tim to help defeat Armstrong and Brother Eye. Afterwards, she joined Tim on a quest to explore the consequences of that alternate timeline. [ 9 ]
Young Justice
Spoiler and Drake on a mission
Two days after their departure from Gotham City and during a visit at the Hall of Justice, Steph found out that Tim had a whole life and existence that they both didn't remembered, with Tim later leaving to Metropolis in order to discover what happened to the original Young Justice team. [ 10 ]
After Tim reformed Young Justice, Spoiler joined with a roster of backup members in order to rescue Conner Kent in an assault on S.T.A.R. Labs. [ 11 ] The team eventually managed to rescue Kon and arrest Dr. Glory. [ 12 ] Stephanie later called Tim and the two teamed up to find Cluemaster, who ended up surviving his slashed throat. After the two shut down Cluemaster, Tim abandoned the Drake identity he had recently acquired, returning to being Robin. [ 13 ]
Infinite Frontier
The Batgirls
Stephanie started adopt the Batgirl mantle along with Cassandra Cain while being guided by Oracle , the two investigated the place where Batman, Harley Quinn and Clownhunter were kidnapped by Ghost-Maker , they found the Arkham written with plants, which indicated where the villain took them. [ 14 ]
Both Steph and Cass were playing a video game on Wayne Manor when they got a call from Oracle, who told them to go investigate an old waterfront convention center. The two Batgirls found a woman that Steph briefly fought until she learned from her that she was actually investigating the murder of a game programmer and that the Batgirls needed to help serve justice as the cops wouldn't, the woman then left them a red card before leaving. [ 15 ]
Fear State
The Batgirls escape an explosion
As the Magistrate began to take over the airwaves of Gotham, the Batgirls were with Barbara at the Gotham Clock Tower , Oracle sent a message via the Gotham City Emergency Broadcast System but the systems were hacked and it instead sent a message of fear to the city, claiming that Batman was dead. [ 16 ] Batman later arrived at the Clock Tower after a fight with Scarecrow and the three of them explained their current situation to him. [ 17 ]
As Barbara lost visuals and audio communication, she urged Steph to go to Cassandra 's location. Steph found Cass fighting many Magistrate soldiers and aided her on the fight. As they fought a mysterious individual hacked Oracle's communication and talked to Batgirl, Steph told Cass that Oracle was compromised and the two Batgirls escaped into the sewers, with Steph breaking her communicator. [ 18 ] After arriving back at the Clock Tower, the Batgirls saw that Barbara had already left after being hacked by Seer, Simon Saint later informed to the people that the Batgirls were terrorist, which resulted on the Magistrate soldiers going after them and blowing up the Clock Tower, though both Steph and Cass managed to escape beforehand. [ 19 ]
The two met up with Barbara, Nightwing and Robin , they all stole some armor from the Magistrate soldiers to fly with their jetpacks to Skybase-01 to face Seer, instead they had to rescue some kidnapped children that were at the ship that was about to crash. [ 20 ] Steph and Cass later stayed at the Holmes hotel while Barbara tried to figure who or what Seer was and to find them a loft to move into, Babs eventually took Cass and Steph to their new warehouse loft, all while being watched by Seer. [ 21 ]
Powers and Abilities
Abilities
Acrobatics [ 22 ]
Driving
Genius Level Intellect Computer Hacking Forensic Pathology [ 23 ] Investigation
Computer Hacking
Forensic Pathology [ 23 ]
Investigation
Lock Picking [ 24 ]
Martial Arts Eskrima Stick Fighting
Eskrima
Stick Fighting
Stealth : Spoiler was able to do a disappearing act on Batman. [ 25 ]
Surveillance [ 23 ]
Tactical Analysis [ 26 ]
Tracking [ 27 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Grapple Gun
Transportation
Motorcycle
Spoilermobile [ 28 ]
Batped
Weapons
Three Section Staff
Notes
Spoiler was created by Chuck Dixon and Tom Lyle , first appearing in Detective Comics #647 . However, in the rebooted Prime Earth continuity her first appearance as part of the New 52 DC Universe is in Batman (Volume 2) #28 by Scott Snyder and James Tynion IV .
Trivia
Stephanie has dated Red Robin (Tim Drake) . [ 29 ]
Unlike her New Earth Counterpart, Stephanie does not seek Batman's approval.
Stephanie finds Nightwing (Dick Grayson) [ 30 ] and Zatanna [ 31 ] attractive.
She only served as Robin for seventy-one days; however, she was suspended for twenty-three of those days. [ 32 ]
Stephanie's best friend is Cassandra Cain . [ 33 ]
She is vegetarian. [ 34 ]
Recommended Reading
As Spoiler:
Batman Eternal (2014-2015)
Batman & Robin Eternal (2015-2016)
Catwoman: Inheritance (Collected)
Batgirl: Mindfields (Collected)
Detective Comics Rebirth (2016-2018) by James Tynion IV (Detective Comics Vol. 1 #934-981)
Batgirl and the Birds of Prey (2016-2018) #15-17, "Manslaughter"
Young Justice Vol. 3 (2019-2021)
Robin 80th Anniversary 100-Page Super Spectacular
Batman: Gotham Nights #12
As Batgirl:
Batman: The Joker War Zone #1
The Joker War
Batman: Ghost Stories (Collected)
Fear State
The Joker (2021-2022)
Batgirls (2022-2023)
Dark Crisis
Robins: Being Robin
Batman vs. Robin (2022-2023)
Tim Drake: Robin (2022-2023)
Detective Comics by Mariko Tamaki (Detective Comics Vol. 1 #1034-1061)
Batman: Shadows of the Bat: The Tower (2022) (Detective Comics #1047-1058)
Batman: One Bad Day - Two-Face
Titans: Beast World Tour: Gotham
Related
265 Appearances of Stephanie Brown (Prime Earth)
148 Images featuring Stephanie Brown (Prime Earth)
17 Quotations by or about Stephanie Brown (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Stephanie Brown (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Young Justice (Volume 3) #5
↑ Batman Eternal #11
↑ Batman Eternal #3
↑ Batman #28
↑ Detective Comics #934
↑ Detective Comics #940
↑ Detective Comics #957
↑ Detective Comics #980
↑ Detective Comics #981
↑ Young Justice (Volume 3) #5
↑ Young Justice (Volume 3) #13
↑ Young Justice (Volume 3) #14
↑ Young Justice (Volume 3) #18
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #104
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #5
↑ Batman: Fear State: Alpha #1
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #112
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #115
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #116
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #86
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #117
↑ Batman Eternal #24
↑ 23.0 23.1 Batgirls #9
↑ Batgirls #11
↑ Batman Eternal #32
↑ Young Justice (Volume 3) #20
↑ Task Force Z #12
↑ Robins #2
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #4
↑ Batman & Robin Eternal #2
↑ Young Justice (Volume 3) #5
↑ Robins #1
↑ Batgirls #2
↑ Batgirls #13
This character is or was an incarnation of or an ally of Batman , and a member of the Batman Family . This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Batman Family members " category.
Young Justice member This character is or was a member of Young Justice , a team of younger super-heroes and side-kicks who fight crime together separately from their adult counterparts, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Young Justice members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.

Supergirl(disambiguation)
Kara Zor-El ( 2011 - Present ) Kara Zor-El Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Kara Zor-El ( 2011 - Present )
Supergirl , also known as the Girl of Steel , is one of the most powerful superheroes in the DC Universe and the cousin of Superman . Born as Kara Zor-El on the dying planet Krypton , her parents Zor-El and Alura sent her in a rocket to Earth to protect her younger cousin Kal, but the rocket traveled more slowly and she arrived on Earth decades after Superman has landed. She was adopted by the Danvers family and eventually became the protector of National City and a reporter at CatCo Worldwide Media known as Kara Danvers . Her Pre- Flashpoint version was also known as Kara Kent , and her Pre- Crisis version was known as Linda Lee .
She has been a member of the Superman Family , the Justice League , the Legion of Super-Heroes , the Red Lantern Corps , and the Department of Extranormal Operations . The "Supergirl" moniker is also a legacy name used by other female super-heroes involved with the Super-Family; like Matrix , a shape-shifting creature from a Pocket Universe who would later fuse with a woman named Linda Danvers developing angelic powers. Power Girl is her Earth-Two version.
Supergirl first appeared as a one-time fictional character in Superman #123 by Otto Binder and Dick Sprang . Supergirl (Kara Zor-El) was recreated by Otto Binder and Al Plastino , first appearing in Action Comics #252 ( 1959 ).
Contents
1 Dark Alters
2 Other Versions
3 Multiverse 3.1 The New 52 Multiverse 3.2 Dark Multiverse 3.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 3.4 Pre-Crisis 3.5 Hypertime 3.6 Elseworlds 3.7 Possible Futures
3.1 The New 52 Multiverse
3.2 Dark Multiverse
3.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
3.4 Pre-Crisis
3.5 Hypertime
3.6 Elseworlds
3.7 Possible Futures
4 Other Media 4.1 DC Animated Universe 4.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse 4.3 Smallville Multiverse 4.4 Arrowverse 4.5 Lego Dimensions 4.6 Injustice Multiverse 4.7 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse 4.8 Others
4.1 DC Animated Universe
4.2 Teen Titans TV Multiverse
4.3 Smallville Multiverse
4.4 Arrowverse
4.5 Lego Dimensions
4.6 Injustice Multiverse
4.7 DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
4.8 Others
5 Comics
6 Other Media Titles
7 See Also
Dark Alters
Other Versions
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Teen Titans TV Multiverse
Smallville Multiverse
Arrowverse
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
DC Super Hero Girls' Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also: Supergirl Titles
Other Media Titles
See Also
Comic series featuring Supergirl
Cover Gallery: Supergirl
Power Girl
Ultragirl
Overgirl
Bizarro Supergirl
Superwoman

Superman (Clark Kent)
Superman Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Kal-El (Birth Name) Clark Joseph Kent (Legal Name) Main Alias Superman Other Aliases Aksel · Chaz Donen [ 1 ] · God of Strength · Jon Clark · Parallax · Yellow Lantern · Superman Blue · Superman Red · Superboy · Doctor Fate [ 2 ] · Bahle'na Gahl [ 3 ] · Bizarro Number One [ 4 ] · Klar-Ken · Nightwing [ 5 ] Relatives Lois Lane-Kent (wife) Jor-El (father, deceased) Lara Lor-Van (mother, deceased) Nim-El (uncle, deceased) Zor-El (uncle, deceased) Alura In-Ze (aunt, deceased) Kara Zor-El (cousin) Jonathan Kent (adoptive father) Martha Kent (adoptive mother) Jon Kent (son) Lar Gand (adoptive brother) Otho-Ra (adoptive daughter) Osul-Ra (adoptive son) Van-Zee (cousin) Mon-El (sixth great-grandson) Sam Lane (father in-law, deceased) Elenor Lane (mother-in-law, deceased) Leo Lane (brother-in-law) Lucy Lane (sister-in-law) Clones : Conner Kent (partial clone/adoptive brother) Bizarro (clone, deceased) Bizarro II (clone) Emperor Super-Man (partial clone) Milkman Man (partial clone, deceased) Nuclear Man (mutated partial clone, deceased) see House of El and Kent Family for extended family line Affiliation Justice League Unlimited , SuperCorp , Daily Planet , Superman Family , The Authority , Supermen of the Multiverse · Formerly Justice League: Team Mystery , Sinestro Corps , Legion of Super-Heroes Base Of Operations Metropolis · Fortress of Solitude · Formerly Justice League Watchtower · Smallville , Kansas · Hamilton County Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Race Kryptonian Citizenship American Marital Status Married Occupation Superhero , Reporter · Former Farmer Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 3" Weight 235 lbs (107 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Black Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Jerry Siegel · Joe Shuster First Appearance Flashpoint Vol 2  #5 ( October, 2011 )
Superman
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Race
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Superman (real name Clark Kent , born Kal-El ) is one of the last children of Krypton , sent as the dying planet's last hope to Earth , where he grew to become its kind and noble protector. Using his immense strength, ability to fly, and various other powers, he defends the planet and the universe from powerful threats, all while inspiring hope into others. He is also a founding member of the Justice League and the father of Jon Kent , the second Superman.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origins 1.1.1 Doomed Planet and Arrival on Earth 1.1.1.1 Childhood 1.1.1.2 Martha's cancer 1.1.1.3 Childhood friends 1.1.1.4 Krypto the Super-Dog 1.1.1.5 Teenage years 1.1.1.6 Debut as Superman 1.2 Early career 1.2.1 Forming the Justice League 1.3 Further adventures 1.3.1 World's Finest 1.3.1.1 The Devil Nezha 1.3.1.2 The Boy Thunder 1.3.1.3 Elementary 1.3.1.4 Heir to the Kingdom 1.3.1.5 IMPossible 1.3.1.6 Total Eclipso 1.3.1.7 20,000 Leagues 1.3.1.8 Bizzaro World Tour 1.3.2 Mongul and the Black Mercy 1.3.3 The Death and Life of Superman 1.3.4 Marriage and fatherhood 1.3.5 Continuing adventures 1.3.6 Imprisoning Luthor 1.4 The New 52 1.4.1 Conflict with Vyndktvx 1.4.2 H'El on Earth 1.4.3 Unchained 1.4.4 The Psi-War 1.4.5 Krypton returns 1.4.6 Pandora and the Crime Syndicate invasion 1.4.7 Doomed 1.4.8 Meeting Ulysses 1.4.9 Blackmailed by HORDR 1.4.10 Defeating Vandal Savage 1.4.11 The Darkseid War 1.4.12 Final Days of Superman 1.5 DC Rebirth 1.5.1 History rewritten 1.5.2 The Superman Revenge Squad 1.5.3 Mr. Oz 1.5.4 Back to Krypton's past 1.5.5 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.5.6 Rampage of Rogol Zaar 1.5.7 Earth in the Phantom Zone 1.5.8 Space Wars 1.5.9 The Justice/Doom War 1.5.10 Death Metal 1.6 Infinite Frontier 1.6.1 The Authority and the Warworld Saga 1.6.2 Dark Crisis 1.6.3 Project Blackout and Supercorp 1.6.4 Blue Earth and Bizarro 1.6.5 Brainiac and Waller's war on superheroes 1.7 All In 1.7.1 Journey into the Phantom Zone 1.7.2 Return of the Justice League and Infection from Red Kryptonite
1.1 Origins 1.1.1 Doomed Planet and Arrival on Earth 1.1.1.1 Childhood 1.1.1.2 Martha's cancer 1.1.1.3 Childhood friends 1.1.1.4 Krypto the Super-Dog 1.1.1.5 Teenage years 1.1.1.6 Debut as Superman
1.1.1 Doomed Planet and Arrival on Earth 1.1.1.1 Childhood 1.1.1.2 Martha's cancer 1.1.1.3 Childhood friends 1.1.1.4 Krypto the Super-Dog 1.1.1.5 Teenage years 1.1.1.6 Debut as Superman
1.1.1.1 Childhood
1.1.1.2 Martha's cancer
1.1.1.3 Childhood friends
1.1.1.4 Krypto the Super-Dog
1.1.1.5 Teenage years
1.1.1.6 Debut as Superman
1.2 Early career 1.2.1 Forming the Justice League
1.2.1 Forming the Justice League
1.3 Further adventures 1.3.1 World's Finest 1.3.1.1 The Devil Nezha 1.3.1.2 The Boy Thunder 1.3.1.3 Elementary 1.3.1.4 Heir to the Kingdom 1.3.1.5 IMPossible 1.3.1.6 Total Eclipso 1.3.1.7 20,000 Leagues 1.3.1.8 Bizzaro World Tour 1.3.2 Mongul and the Black Mercy 1.3.3 The Death and Life of Superman 1.3.4 Marriage and fatherhood 1.3.5 Continuing adventures 1.3.6 Imprisoning Luthor
1.3.1 World's Finest 1.3.1.1 The Devil Nezha 1.3.1.2 The Boy Thunder 1.3.1.3 Elementary 1.3.1.4 Heir to the Kingdom 1.3.1.5 IMPossible 1.3.1.6 Total Eclipso 1.3.1.7 20,000 Leagues 1.3.1.8 Bizzaro World Tour
1.3.1.1 The Devil Nezha
1.3.1.2 The Boy Thunder
1.3.1.3 Elementary
1.3.1.4 Heir to the Kingdom
1.3.1.5 IMPossible
1.3.1.6 Total Eclipso
1.3.1.7 20,000 Leagues
1.3.1.8 Bizzaro World Tour
1.3.2 Mongul and the Black Mercy
1.3.3 The Death and Life of Superman
1.3.4 Marriage and fatherhood
1.3.5 Continuing adventures
1.3.6 Imprisoning Luthor
1.4 The New 52 1.4.1 Conflict with Vyndktvx 1.4.2 H'El on Earth 1.4.3 Unchained 1.4.4 The Psi-War 1.4.5 Krypton returns 1.4.6 Pandora and the Crime Syndicate invasion 1.4.7 Doomed 1.4.8 Meeting Ulysses 1.4.9 Blackmailed by HORDR 1.4.10 Defeating Vandal Savage 1.4.11 The Darkseid War 1.4.12 Final Days of Superman
1.4.1 Conflict with Vyndktvx
1.4.2 H'El on Earth
1.4.3 Unchained
1.4.4 The Psi-War
1.4.5 Krypton returns
1.4.6 Pandora and the Crime Syndicate invasion
1.4.7 Doomed
1.4.8 Meeting Ulysses
1.4.9 Blackmailed by HORDR
1.4.10 Defeating Vandal Savage
1.4.11 The Darkseid War
1.4.12 Final Days of Superman
1.5 DC Rebirth 1.5.1 History rewritten 1.5.2 The Superman Revenge Squad 1.5.3 Mr. Oz 1.5.4 Back to Krypton's past 1.5.5 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse 1.5.6 Rampage of Rogol Zaar 1.5.7 Earth in the Phantom Zone 1.5.8 Space Wars 1.5.9 The Justice/Doom War 1.5.10 Death Metal
1.5.1 History rewritten
1.5.2 The Superman Revenge Squad
1.5.3 Mr. Oz
1.5.4 Back to Krypton's past
1.5.5 Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
1.5.6 Rampage of Rogol Zaar
1.5.7 Earth in the Phantom Zone
1.5.8 Space Wars
1.5.9 The Justice/Doom War
1.5.10 Death Metal
1.6 Infinite Frontier 1.6.1 The Authority and the Warworld Saga 1.6.2 Dark Crisis 1.6.3 Project Blackout and Supercorp 1.6.4 Blue Earth and Bizarro 1.6.5 Brainiac and Waller's war on superheroes
1.6.1 The Authority and the Warworld Saga
1.6.2 Dark Crisis
1.6.3 Project Blackout and Supercorp
1.6.4 Blue Earth and Bizarro
1.6.5 Brainiac and Waller's war on superheroes
1.7 All In 1.7.1 Journey into the Phantom Zone 1.7.2 Return of the Justice League and Infection from Red Kryptonite
1.7.1 Journey into the Phantom Zone
1.7.2 Return of the Justice League and Infection from Red Kryptonite
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses 2.4 Other Characteristics
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
2.4 Other Characteristics
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Weapons
3.1 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Recommended Reading
7 Related 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Origins
Doomed Planet and Arrival on Earth
Superman's new, composite origin
Kal-El, the Last Son of Krypton , was born to scientists Jor-El and Lara Lor-Van shortly before the destruction of their doomed world. Aware of their planet's impending fate, they conducted extensive (but remote) research on habitable worlds within range and constructed a rocket so that their son might survive. [ 6 ] As an infant, he was introduced to his paternal cousin Kara Zor-El . In the end, they chose Earth , and managed to launch their son into space mere moments before the destruction of Krypton. Kal's rocket landed in Smallville, Kansas , where he was discovered by Jonathan and Martha Kent . He was given the name "Clark Kent" and adopted as their son.
When Clark began his schooling, Martha and Jonathan were at first concerned that he wouldn't fit in with his classmates, a worry that the young Clark shared. Asking his father for advice, Jonathan simply tells Clark to tell jokes and if he gets people to laugh, they'll be his friends. Clark's first day isn't as difficult as he expects and he ends up making many friends at school, until he notices a girl, Samantha, sitting alone in the playground; ostracized for being different.
Clark decided that he wants to befriend the girl, but feared that if he did, he'd lose all the friends he'd made up to that point. Consulting with his parents, they advise him to befriend the girl regardless of his classmates' opinions.  He followed through, and his example inspired others in his class to befriend Samantha. [ 7 ]
During Clark's childhood, Martha was diagnosed with cancer, and underwent chemotherapy for the affliction; Clark was not told until well into her treatment, when Clark struggled with a new student attending the school, Caleb Withers . Caleb was something of a bully, with misplaced aggression spurred on by his abusive father. Clark struggled with the urge not to respond to Caleb's behavior in kind, something his mother talked him out of, telling him that it was better to help people find the good within themselves rather than correct their behavior by force.
As they were leaving, Caleb kicked a soccer ball into Martha's head, knocking her down and inadvertently removing her wig, revealing to Clark her hair loss. Later that evening, he snuck over to Caleb's house, with the intent to destroy Caleb's bicycle in retribution, only to discover Caleb's drunk father abusing him. As Caleb's father attempted to drive off, he nearly drove into oncoming traffic, with Clark saving his life. He then brought the unconscious man to the local clinic, leaving him there anonymously. Afterward, Clark attempted to cut off his own hair in solidarity with his mother, only to discover that his invulnerability made that impossible at the time. Later, Clark was able to reach Caleb, that he wasn't his father, and that he didn't have to be him.
Caleb eventually apologized to Martha, revealing that he'd cut his own hair in solidarity with Martha as part of his apology. He left to live with his aunt in Metropolis, and one day would grow to run a community center for at-risk youth. [ 8 ]
Growing up in Smallville, Clark found himself becoming best friends with Lana Lang and Pete Ross . The trio were inseparable and did everything together, including hiding from the young Lex Luthor . The first time Clark flew was on instinct; a tornado hit Smallville, and he acted without thinking in order to save Lana Lang's life. [ 9 ] In spite of this, Clark did end up briefly befriending Lex. [ 10 ]
Clark Kent and Krypto
One evening, during a family dinner, Clark's enhanced senses noticed an object crashing from space a few miles away. He immediately set off to find it with super-speed, with his parents warning him not to touch it until they arrived. Later, all three converged on the object; a Kryptonian space-pod lodged into a dry creek bed.  Clark immediately recognized it as resembling the pod he arrived in, and, reaching out to it, found that it recognized him in turn.  It opened, revealing a small dog. The dog playfully jumped on Clark and began to display the same Kryptonian power-set that Clark possessed.
Clark quickly sped off to play with the dog, easily bonding with it. As he did, a holographic recording of his birth father, Jor-El, activates, revealing to his parents that the dog was a test subject for a prototype of the pod that eventually would bring Clark to Earth.  The recording also revealed the dog's name, given to him by the infant Kal-El: Krypto . Approving of how happy Krypto made Clark, Jonathan and Martha allowed him to keep and raise the dog. [ 11 ]
One particular autumn during Clark's teenage years, the Kent farm suffered a bad harvest; in spite of this, Jonathan Kent decided to share what little they could spare with their neighbors, who had endured worse. The entire community helped each other out, surprising Clark, who had heard that some people disliked each other, and Jonathan explained that people ultimately want to be good, they just need an example to bring out the best side of themselves. Jonathan tells Clark to be that example. [ 12 ]
Kal as Superboy!
Clark first debuted as a public superhero at the age of fifteen, when his parents took him to Metropolis to visit the Expo of Tomorrow as a birthday gift. For that trip, he had brought the costume his mother had sewed for him, an action that his parents' disapproved, since they believed he wasn't ready yet to reveal his existence to the world. While there, the Expo was attacked by a supervillain calling himself Raze , and Clark was forced to don his costume in order to save bystanders and stop him. However, his inexperience using his powers in a fight had him struggling heavily, before his father's voice motivated him to use one of his lessons to defeat the villain by making a whirlwind and removing his equipment. After the battle was over, Clark was overwhelmed by people's comments and flew away to his parents, who were extremely proud of his efforts to save lives, even while worried about what would happen next with his secret out. [ 13 ]
However, Clark lacked a superhero codename until the newly-promoted Daily Planet editor Perry White took the suggestion of a colleague's niece and called him the first Superboy , a name which Clark enjoyed, even as his parents only allowed him to do superhero work three times a week. In these patrols, Superboy visited for the first time cities like Gotham , Los Angeles and Central City , while learning how to navigate in flight and adapting to his powers, who were not yet as strong as they would be in his adulthood. Nevertheless, in spite of his enjoyment of his superheroics, Clark still had regular teenage struggles, which were compounded by his mother's idea to mantain a secret identity by wearing glasses (who would cut the color of his eyes) and fake a meeker personality. [ 14 ]
In his first day at Smallville High School , Clark struggled to make friends due to these attempts to separate himself from Superboy, though he did reconnect with his best friend Pete Ross . He was also bullied by Kenny Bravermen and developed a crush in his old friend Lana Lang , both situations which made his promise to keep his powers secret more difficult to keep. Nonetheless, Clark was forced to act when a fire in the chemistry lab grew out of control after a failure from the sprinklers to activate. After he put out the fire, Clark discovered that the owner of the company responsible for setting the fire supression had taken the money instead of finishing the job, which infuriated Superboy to the extent he broke into his office and threatened him with his heat vision, an action for which he was forced to apologize, leaving the criminal to the police. This outburst greatly disappointed Clark's parents, who believed his job should be to only aprehend criminals, but they were interrupted by a visit from his history teacher, Mr. Blake, who revealed his knowledge of Superboy's secret identity to the shocked Kents. [ 14 ]
As this was the first time he was ever accused of being a superhero, Clark didn't know what to say and inadvertently gave away the Kents' concern that Blake was a government agent looking for an alien spacecraft . Then, as the game was already up, Blake revealed he was actually the old superhero Captain Comet , and he had been watching the Kents in secret for years. Comet explained this gross violation of their privacy away by telling multiple stories of young alien superheroes who, due to their recklessness, caused massive devastation in their worlds, and said that Clark would have to prove to Earth that he will always act thoughtfully. Jonathan and Martha were left starstruck by this visit of a hero from their childhoods, but Clark was way more put off by Comet's judgmental tone, and he took out his frustrations by openly using his powers to complete his chores. This led to a fight with his father about being more careful, followed by an argument with his mother concerning the amount of bullet holes in his costume, due to his showing off in fights. In school, Clark's day didn't go any better, as he was unable to talk to Lana due to an interruption by Kenny, which led to Clark thoughtlessly pushing his bully, luckly not making any serious harm. After this incident, he donned his costume and flew away, encountering Comet mid-air. The older hero told Superboy to stop an incoming plague of locusts that was coming for Smallville, before mysteriously disappearing. After several failed attempts, Superboy whistled in an ultrasonic frequency that made them disoriented, before leading them north, as he was unwilling to exterminate any living being. Although pleased that he was able to do some good after plenty of struggling in his regular life, Clark was left even more suspicious of Comet as a would-be mentor. [ 15 ]
At some point, Superboy joined the Legion of Super-Heroes , a superhero team from the future, and fought alongside them in battles against the likes of Mordru and Darkseid . [ 16 ] [ 17 ] [ 10 ] [ 18 ]
When he was sixteen, Clark briefly considered telling Lana Lang his secret identity, due to his growing affection for her, but he was interrupted by the appearance of Legion villain Validus in Smallville . Superboy went to confront him alongside Krypto, but, in the struggle, he fell into the timestream and briefly glimpsed his own future, with a wife that wasn't Lana. Although the mental block given to him by the Legionnaires prevented Clark from remembering details about his personal future, a gut feeling of uncertainty remained that prevented him from sharing his secret with Lana at this time. Even then, he would eventually confide in her, [ 10 ] though he would only understand the truth behind his subliminal feelings and Validus' attack much later. [ 18 ]
In a previous iteration of history , on the night of his senior prom, because his adoptive parents discouraged Clark from becoming a superhero for fear what it could do to him, he failed to save Jonathan and Martha from dying in a car accident.  This was not a natural occurrence; it was arranged by the fifth-dimensional demon Vyndktvx as part of a multi-pronged attack on Clark at many points across the timeline.
However, when the Justice Society of America was restored to its proper place in the timeline, they set a good example for superheroes to come in the future. With role models to look up to and no reason to stay in hiding, on the night of his senior prom, Clark saved his adoptive parents from dying in a car accident. [ 19 ]
Main article: Superman and the Men of Steel
Superman debuts in Metropolis
Upon moving to Metropolis, Clark took a job at the Daily Star and prepared himself to act as a vigilante at the age of 22, [ 20 ] by having several shirts printed with the S-Symbol that had come to Earth with him emblazoned on them. His attempt to rescue a young boy caused him to reveal himself before he expected to, and the city came to know of the superhuman man. [ 21 ]
Superman and Batman met for the first time while Clark was investigating a series of murders in Wayne Enterprises . The two new heroes were unexpectedly whisked to a parallel reality by Kaiyo the Trickster where they met older and more experienced versions of themselves. When they were returned back to their Earth however, Kaiyo wiped their memories of the whole interaction. [ 22 ]
During the Zero Year , Clark attempted to personally disperse Hurricane Rene as it bore down on the coastline, still unsure of the upper limits of his powers.  His attempt to divert the hurricane was unsuccessful, but he did succeed in rescuing the tanker Jean-Marie, which had at the time been carrying his childhood friend, Lana Lang as its engineer. [ 23 ]
Within six months, Clark had fully revealed himself and was targeting corrupt businessman Glen Glenmorgan when General Sam Lane and Lex Luthor took an interest in him. They staged several emergencies to trap him, finally succeeding with a train crash that endangered the General's own daughter Lois . [ 24 ] In collaboration with the military, Luthor tortured Superman while his Kryptonian Rocket was studied. Upon his escape, Superman sealed his birth rocket away for protection but was too late to prevent its Kryptonian signal from alerting the Collector of Worlds to its location - and unaware that Luthor was complicit in making that happen. [ 25 ]
After the district of New Troy had been secretly shrunken down and abducted by the Collector of Worlds, Superman made a giant leap from Metropolis into outer space, catching hold of the retreating spaceship. The Collector tried to force Superman to choose between the lives of those in the city of Kandor and of New Troy, but he refused to choose, instead donning a Kryptonian suit of armor from one of the bottles and promising to protect both . [ 26 ] Defeating the Collector and returning New Troy to its original place, Superman then came out officially to the people of Metropolis as an alien and promised to remain on the side of good. [ 27 ] Even then, this wouldn't be the last time Superman would fight the Coluan collector, who would become, under the alias of Brainiac, one of Kal's frequent and most dangerous enemies. [ 10 ]
Early career
Reluctantly, after encouragement from his boss at the Daily Star, he accepted a job as a reporter at the Daily Planet , where he befriended fellow reporter Lois Lane , photographer Jimmy Olsen and his editor Perry White . [ 10 ] On his first day, Clark saved Lois's life during a helicopter crash, in the process debuting a new costume bearing red trunks and a low neckline, but clearly inspired by the Kryptonian armor Clark recovered from Brainiac's ship. Among the first villains he ever faced was the Ultra-Humanite , who developed a lifelong enmity towards him. [ 28 ] He also quickly made an enemy of his former childhood friend Lex Luthor, who had become a ruthless scientist and businessman.
Besides Luthor, Clark also encountered around this time several villains who would end up plaguing him for the rest of his career, such as Parasite , Metallo , Bizarro (the first of several imperfect Superman clones using this name), Mr. Mxyzptlk and Toyman . [ 10 ]
Early on in his career, before the founding of the Justice League , Clark was displaced into the early 1960s during an unknown incident. While there, he operated in secret- though not secret enough that he wasn't known to the President of the United States . He met with the President, who requested that he, and others like him, come forward and use their collective abilities to make the world a better place. He offered to protect the president in Dallas; Kennedy declined, insisting that Superman assist with a manned flight to the moon. Shortly afterwards, the president was assassinated while riding in his motorcade in Dallas. Eventually Superman was able to return to his own time; when he returned, he did his best to fulfill his promise to the doomed president. [ 29 ]
At some point in his early days, Clark discovered another survivor of Krypton's destruction, his own cousin, Kara Zor-El , whose ship had been caught in a time warp on the way to Earth. After a brief stint in an orphanage, [ 30 ] Kara was adopted by retired D.E.O. agents Jeremiah and Eliza Danvers in the small town of Midvale , and joined her cousin as the hero Supergirl. [ 10 ] [ 31 ]
Superman also undertook several adventures in the bottle city of Kandor, and, lacking his powers, used the secret identity of Nightwing while there, in honor of a Kryptonian deity. After that, the name was used by his Kandorian cousin Van-Zee , who became one of the city's superheroes alongside Flamebird , and, many years later, by the first Robin Dick Grayson , when he decided to abandon his previous identity, using that codename in order to pay his respects to his friend Superman. [ 5 ] [ 10 ] [ 32 ]
Forming the Justice League
Clark was among the founding members of the Justice League . While the team's actual first meeting is debated, Clark helped defeat Darkseid's invasion and participated in the subsequent battle with the alien Appellaxians . The heroes, inspired by their victory, formed a team, christening it the Justice League, although Clark only joined them officially some short time after their proper establishment. One of their earliest foes was Starro the Conqueror . [ 33 ] [ 10 ]
Following an encounter between Barry Allen and Jay Garrick , the Flashes of two heroic generations, the Justice Society of America fully came out of retirement to defeat the Crime Champions alongside their League sucessors. The two teams began to act together from this point forward to battle any threats too great for a single band of heroes, such as the Earth 3 Crime Syndicate , which included an evil version of Superman known as Ultraman . [ 10 ]
Further adventures
World's Finest
The World's Finest begins!
Over the course of their careers, Superman and Batman and became close allies, despite some initial distrust and the stark difference between their methods and personalities. They would frequently operate as partners, a pairing referred to by some as 'The World's Finest'.  At some point, they fought the tyrant Mongul MDCCXC together. [ citation needed ]
Superman battles The Devil Nezha!
One such outing was prompted by the unexpected team-up of the Gotham-based villain Poison Ivy and the cyborg Metallo under the influence of the Devil Nezha . During the encounter, Metallo injected Superman with a sample of Red Kryptonite , causing Superman to undergo a series of rapid and horrifying transformations. Batman contacted the Doom Patrol, who rapidly arrived on the scene. Luckily, Negative Man was able to incapacitate Superman. [ 31 ] The group was able to purge the Red Kryptonite from Superman; Niles Caulder then identified the insignia on the vial that had been used to inject Superman as belonging to the Devil Nezha (having recently recovered Nezha's sword from General Zahl themselves, and recounted the legend of Nezha's creation).
Simultaneously, several villains attacked other heroes, including The Flash, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern, and the new hero Captain Marvel . Splitting up, Robin teamed with Supergirl, and the pair traveled  in time in order to contact the House of Ji , who had defeated and imprisoned Nezha in antiquity.  Superman and Batman traveled to Philadelphia in order to rescue Billy Batson from Felix Faust [ 34 ] Despite some struggle, they were able to defeat Faust and rescue Billy before moving on to aid other heroes.
The pair then went to rescue Wonder Woman and the Flash, who under attack by Doctor Alchemy and Mirror Master respectively. They defeated both villains by tricking Doctor Alchemy into attacking Mirror Master's Mirror, only to be captured by Green Lantern , who had fallen under Nezha's sway. [ 35 ] However, the pair was able to escape by overriding Hal Jordan's compromised willpower. The ring, seeing them as one individual and amplified by the ambient magic produced by Nezha, fused Batman and Superman into a single composite being. [ 36 ] Nezha did not relent, though, and sent the heroes Black Canary , Firestorm , Martian Manhunter, Kid Flash , Wonder Girl , and Red Tornado after them. However, the fused pair was able to force Nezha towards his far-away tomb with the assistance of the returned Supergirl. Realizing that Nezha was weak to modern technologies, the group managed to imprison Nezha within his tomb once again with the help of a Phantom Zone Projector . [ 37 ]
Afterwards, Superman and Batman traveled back in time to the year 1892 to rescue Robin, who had inadvertently become lost in the timestream during his trip to learn from the House of Ji. There, they participated in a circus show undercover, and helped Robin solve an a murder before the trio returned to the present. [ 38 ]
Superman's forgotten sidekick, The Boy Thunder!
Some time later, a rift opened up in the sky, and through it, David Sikela arrived, the last survivor from an unknown Earth elsewhere in them multiverse. They quickly realized the unique properties of David's biology gave him powers under Earth-0's sun, and brought him to Kandor to be examined by the Kandorian scientist Kim-Da . While there, Kim-Da fabricated David a costume inspired by Hel-Oz, an ancient Kryptonian hero. After a brief but traumatic excursion to Gotham, Robin took David to the secret base of the Teen Titans , where he introduced the teen to his friends and partners. [ 39 ]
For a time, Boy Thunder worked as Superman's sidekick; eventually, however, it would not last.  After several adventures in which he helped subdue an earthquake, battle Doctor Phosphorus, fight Sinestro, and save the city from Atomic Skull, things rapidly fell apart as David was directly targeted. The Key attacked Gotham, using a psychotropic compound to effectively lock all of its inhabitants where they were when the attack began, including Robin and Batman, who were stuck in the Batcave.  Despite an anxiety attack, David was able to help, rescuing trapped miners.  Luckily, based on Batman's notes, Blue Beetle was able to disperse an antidote to the chemical. Unbeknownst to them, the Key was working with the Joker, who had larger plans. [ 40 ]
David continued to study alongside Superman and Batman, struggling with anger issues and the trauma of losing his parents and world, later admitting to Superman that he believed himself to be responsible for his parents' death. Their heart-to-heart was interrupted by the next stage of the Joker and the Key's plan- using Angle Man's Angler to open a door directly from the bottom of the Gotham River into the city. Tragically, the pair used this distraction as an opportunity to kidnap David. They tortured David as Superman and his allies desperately searched for their lost friend.  Eventually, they found him, and in the process of freeing him, David nearly killed the Joker. In the aftermath, Superman briefly considered using Kryptonian technology designed by Kim-Da to depower David, but decided against it.
However, the Key was not yet done with David. He summoned a motley crew of villains into the Fortress of Solitude, including Bag O' Bones, Acid Master, Doctor Phoenix, the Abominable Snowman, Ferlin Nxly, and Zebra Man. In the chaos, he activated the Bleedship that brought David to Earth-0, seeing it as the key to the multiverse. Resultingly, David was pulled out of Earth-0, sent to an unknown world in the Multiverse- but not before a tearful goodbye with Superman. [ 41 ]
Mongul and the Black Mercy
At some point, he came into conflict with Mongul MDCCXC , an alien tyrant who ruled the vast Warworld . Later, this enemy would infect him with the Black Mercy , an alien flower capable of inducing intense hallucinatory false realities. While imprisoned within the Black Mercy's tendrils, Clark saw a version of Krypton that never exploded. In this world, Kal-El had a life on Krypton- a wife and a son. Though he was eventually freed, the experience affected Clark deeply. He ruminated on it for many years, and in the end, it inspired him to one day make a change and expand his circle of trust. [ 42 ]
The Death and Life of Superman
Over the years, Superman had many adventures. At some point, some of Superman's DNA was collected by the Agenda , Project Cadmus and Lex Luthor , resulting in multiple clones, including Superboy and Bizarro . After rescuing a group of children from a bus accident, a chance encounter with a nurse led Superman to dedicate a decent portion of his time to acting as a medical courier for organ donations. During one of his adventures, he was sent to a 'pocket earth', where he experienced a traumatic event that resulted in him leaving Earth for a time. While in space, Superman was forced to battle as a gladiator in one of Mongul's lesser Warworlds, and his refusal to kill his opponents led to a revolt. At some point later, Clark led a group of superheroes to defeat a planetary attack by Brainiac. [ 43 ] .
Superman's death
Over time, Clark and Lois fell in love, and he revealed his secret identity to her. Not long after, Superman was seemingly killed by the alien monster Doomsday . In the wake of his death, four very different contenders arose to his mantle: The Cyborg Hank Henshaw , the erstwhile Steel , the Cadmus-created clone Superboy and the android known as the Eradicator. [ 44 ] Eventually, the Cyborg Superman revealed his true colors, participating in the destruction of Coast City. Superman was soon restored to life; Steel and Superboy became lasting allies for the Man of Steel. [ 45 ] .
Marriage and fatherhood
Afterwards, Clark and Lois married. At one point, Superman's powers malfunctioned, and he temporarily became Electric Blue Superman before returning to normal. [ 46 ]
Shortly after their marriage, Lois became pregnant with a child, and Clark delivered his son, Jonathan Samuel Kent , in the Fortress of Solitude during an attempted alien invasion. [ 47 ]
In The New 52 's continuity, their son was born in an alternate Batcave, delivered by Batman , during Convergence ". [ 48 ] This was later retconned by the "Superman Reborn" crossover.
After Jon's birth, the Kent family moved to a farm upstate, and instead commuted to work in Metropolis. Jon Kent was raised with no knowledge of his father's dual identity as Superman and was largely kept isolated from many of Superman's associates.
Continuing adventures
At some point, Superman came into conflict with the Elite , a violent and proactive super-team lead by Manchester Black . He developed an instinctive distaste for Manchester as a result; Manchester felt similarly. [ 49 ] [ 50 ]
Over the course of his long career, Superman fought at the side of "one or two" of the historical figures known as King Arthur . In the process, he rescued the famed 'round table' during the Second Fall of Camelot and was entrusted with its safekeeping by Arthur himself. [ 51 ]
Eventually, Clark introduced his clone, Conner Kent, to his parents, and Conner lived with them and attended Smallville High School for a time before he was lost in Gemworld. [ 52 ]
Imprisoning Luthor
Superman, Batman, Martian Manhunter, and Wonder Woman would later fight against a team-up of Lex Luthor and Metallo . Diana defeated Metallo, unbeknownst to Lex, allowing Martian Manhunter to assume his shape.  Superman then pretended to be affected by "Metallo's" Kryptonite . Seeing victory ahead, Lex took a moment to gloat; unbeknownst to him, Manhunter's faux-Kryptonite was a recording device, and his admission of attempted murder was enough evidence to send him to prison.
Superman later visited Luthor in prison, seeking to discuss the fact that the welder who would link Lex to Metallo's armor plating had gone missing. Instead, Lex offered to place Chess with Superman, who humored him for a short while- until he was informed that the welder had been found, safe but a little worse for wear.  He then left, telling Lex that he wasn't 'playing his game'. [ 53 ]
The New 52
The Man of Tomorrow
After Barry Allen returned from the Flashpoint , Clark adopted a new costume; a suit comprised of Kryptonian nanotech that would construct itself over his clothes when he needed it.
In the original New 52 continuity, Clark found this suit aboard Brainiac's ship during his origin and wore it from then on; however, as the result of successive continuity changes, Superman does not begin wearing this suit until much, much later.
Conflict with Vyndktvx
Main article: Action Comics: At the End of Days
After faking his death as Clark Kent to shake off someone who was investigating too closely into his secret identity, Clark took the alias of Johnny Clark and joined the fire department. Still, he began to regret killing Clark Kent off and sought advice from Batman , who promised to deal with it.
After discovering an alien named Captain Comet who foretold of Earth's extinction by alien attacks, Superman managed to fight him off but, in the process, caused his Johnny Clark identity to be thought dead as well . Luckily, Superman's former landlady, Mrs. Nyxly , who knew of his former secret identity as Clark Kent, revealed to him that she was from the Fifth Dimension and used one of her three wishes she had saved to wipe Clark Kent's death from everyone's minds. Nyxly continued to tell Superman that everything bad that ever happened in his life was the doing of someone else from her home. [ 54 ] She explained that Lord Vyndktvx from her home dimension had attacked Clark at multiple points in his history, to the point that certain memories he had might have happened otherwise before those attacks. [ 55 ]
Lord Vyndktvx finally made a play for Superman's life in the present with his assembled Anti-Superman Army. [ 55 ] Finally understanding Vyndktvx's weakness, Superman used a telepathic connection set up by Lois Lane's psychic niece Susie Thompkins to convince everyone in the world to say their own names backwards. The sound of this five-dimensional utterance caused Vyndktvx to retreat to his own dimension, where he was immediately arrested. [ 56 ]
H'El on Earth
Main article: Superman: H'El on Earth
Superman vs. H'el
Soon after, the Daily Planet was bought out by businessman Morgan Edge , initiating a major change in the reporting style of the Planet. Unhappy with the changes, Clark quit working for the paper.
In a previous iteration of history , Clark then discovered that found out that his longtime crush Lois Lane was now in a serious relationship with another man named John Carroll . [ 57 ] However, this event was erased from history when Superman's history was revised .
Later, in his hero identity, Superman was confronted by another Kryptonian survivor called H'El , who wanted to recruit him by force to join his unholy crusade of saving Krypton. After learning that H'el wanted to use the Fortress of Solitude to go back in time to save Krypton by extinguishing Earth's sun, Superman called in the Justice League and his teenage clone Superboy to fight H'El and prevent the destruction of the solar system. [ 58 ]
Unchained
While investigating the shady government group known as Ascension , Superman uncovered the beast known as Wraith , an alien with very similar powers to him that was captured and trained by the US government to bring down terrorists. After learning about their common purposes, Superman and Wraith agreed to work together to stop Ascension. [ 59 ]
Superman and Wraith defeated a small faction of Ascension, but Superman was soon betrayed by Wraith, who sought what was known as an Earthstone. Following a colossal battle, Superman defeated Wraith and not long after this, Lex Luthor informed him that Wraith's species was planning to attack Earth and the only weapon that could be used against them would kill Superman. [ 60 ] Superman chose not to use the weapon and confronted the aliens without aid, but Wraith soon redeemed himself by using the weapon against his own species, killing himself in the process. [ 61 ]
The Psi-War
Main article: Superman: Psi-War
After the battle with H'El, Superman was called to a U.S. Senate hearing to discuss the existence of the Fortress of Solitude. The Senate representatives wanted to investigate the Fortress in order to secure or remove anything that might be considered a threat to the world. However, Superman refused, appealing to his right to privacy and the fact that the Fortress contained technology beyond humanity's control. Clark also became a blogger to make ends meet. [ 62 ]
When it was discovered that the villain Hector Hammond , after falling into a coma, used his telepathy to hide his consciousness within Superman's memories, Wonder Woman and Orion team up to banish Hammond back to his own body and save Superman. For the future, Orion used his Mother Box to grant Superman protection from telepathic assaults. [ 63 ]
Continuing his investigative work, Clark went to Gotham City, where a mysterious Chinese woman gave him, a folder containing info about an urban myth called "the Twenty". However, before he could break the story, Superman was incapacitated by a psychic attack caused by the H.I.V.E. Queen, one of the Twenty. [ 64 ]
Superman and Hector Hammond teamed up to stop the Queen, but, upon her defeat and apparent death, a new villain arrived: the Psycho Pirate , a telepath who knew about Superman's secret identity. [ 65 ] The Psycho Pirate lead Superman to the Swarm, a prison for psionic people, explaining that he was also one of the Twenty. The Queen created the Swarm in order to prepare the world for Brainiac's return. With the Queen dead, the Psycho Pirate wanted to release the people trapped in the Swarm, so he trapped Superman in an illusionary world in order to absorb his energy. [ 66 ]
Lois, having developed psychic powers of her own, freed Superman from the illusions. Knowing they were outmatched against the Psycho Pirate, Superman and Lois joined forces with Hammond and the H.I.V.E. Queen, who had barely survived the Pirate's attack, and defeated the Psycho-Pirate and destroyed his Medusa Mask .
During the battle, Lois learned Superman's secret identity but conveniently fell into a coma from her new power usage. Superman brought Lois to the hospital to be treated and, when she reawakened, she had forgotten the information and lost her powers. [ 67 ]
Following various revisions to history, it is likely this event was erased from continuity (or at least heavily modified), as it no longer aligns with the histories of many of the characters involved, including that of Lois Lane and the Psycho-Pirate.
Krypton returns
Main article: Krypton Returns
Superman and Jor-El
Superman was dragged into space by a mysterious force called the Oracle that told him that H'El had survived and had managed to bring Krypton back to life by altering the timeline, which threatened the entire universe if they did not go back in time to stop him. With the help of Faora , Superman traveled to Kryptonopolis a few months before Krypton's destruction, where he met his mother Lara. [ 68 ] [ 69 ] Superman witnessed Lara tell Jor-El that she was pregnant, [ 70 ] but was soon confronted by a version of his father Jor-El from the dystopian future H'El had created, who had also gone back in time to fix the present.
Superman and Jor-El traveled to Krypton's core and fought H'El, and Superman used H'El's own chronal powers against him by freezing him with his super-breath, locking H'El in a state of eternal limbo. Superman and Supergirl were reunited in the present, but they learned that Superboy sacrificed his life to stop H'El. Mourning the loss of their friend, Superman and Supergirl returned to Earth. [ 71 ]
Pandora and the Crime Syndicate invasion
Main articles: Trinity War and Forever Evil
In the hopes of ridding the world of evil, Pandora tried to have members of the Justice League open her box , believing that their virtuousness would prevent the calamity that occurred when she opened it. [ 72 ] However, this backfired, and the active Justice Leagues took sides, fighting over the "correct" method to open the box. [ 73 ]
While trying to understand the escalating tension of opening the box, Superman and Wonder Woman were ambushed by Dr. Light and, during their fight, Superman accidentally killed Light with his heat vision. [ 74 ] Superman asked to be locked away for his outburst but started getting sick in captivity. [ 75 ] Upon investigating further, Firestorm, the Atom and Element Woman discovered that there was Kryptonite in Superman's nervous system, which caused him to attack Dr. Light unintentionally. [ 76 ] However, before they could save him, the Crime Syndicate came to Earth from their world and trapped the Justice League inside the Firestorm Matrix .
After being freed by Lex Luthor and his group of rebellious criminals , Superman was eventually saved by Lex, who was volunteered to remove the Kryptonite from his brain. [ 77 ] For his heroism during the crisis, Lex was accepted as a member of the Justice League .
Doomed
Main article: Superman: Doomed
SuperDoom
After discovering Doomsday wreaking havoc and harboring a dangerous toxin within his body, Superman ripped the beast in half and used his super-breath to inhale the toxin to stop it from spreading. [ 78 ] After recovering, Superman realized that he was slowly turning into a Doomsday-like creature himself. [ 79 ] Wonder Woman tried to help him, but the transformation became stronger [ 80 ] and Superman had no choice but to turn himself to the authorities. [ 81 ] Superman was locked in a special facility but he soon was needed by the Teen Titans to defeat an enemy, which he eliminated ruthlessly in his increasingly monstrous state. [ 82 ]
The military declared Superman an enemy of the state and they sent Metallo and Atomic Skull to eliminate him. Steel tried to help Superman fight the enemies, but, after a suicide attack with kryptonite by Metallo, Superman became weak and his transformation into "SuperDoom" was accelerated. [ 83 ] Wonder Woman then took Clark to outer space where he could escape into its depths until they found a way to save him. [ 84 ]
While in space, SuperDoom tried to help an alien colony but lost control and attacked their leader. [ 85 ] He was then warned about an incoming invasion of Earth by Brainiac's forces and he confronted its commander, a cyborg with Superman's appearance . [ 86 ] After a brief fight between them, SuperDoom returned to Earth and joined the Justice League to fight Brainiac's forces and after their victory, the Justice League removed the kryptonite from Earth's atmosphere, making Superman temporarily change back to normal. [ 87 ] [ 88 ]
When Brainiac's forces returned with reinforcements, Superman attempted to turn back into SuperDoom to fight them. Unfortunately, Superman lost control of his body completely to the virus. [ 89 ] Defeating Brainiac, Lois Lane helped Superman steal Brainiac's powers and finally cure Superman of the Doomsday virus. Once free, the hero captured Brainiac and took him inside a black hole, [ 90 ] returning back to Earth sixty days later. [ 91 ]
Meeting Ulysses
Superman and Ulysses
During an alien attack on Metropolis, Superman was assisted by a stranger called Ulysses and together they defeated Klerik , one of the alien soldiers. Superman then learned that Ulysses believed himself to be the last survivor of Earth. [ 92 ] With Superman's help, Ulysses found the truth about his past, [ 93 ] but they were soon confronted by "The Machinist", a man responsible for creating destructive robots. [ 94 ] The criminal managed to escape and shortly afterwards, Ulysses revealed his plan of taking millions of people to his home planet, "The Great World" in order to save mankind from what he believed was Earth's doom. [ 95 ] This lead to a confrontation between Superman and Ulysses, with the latter winning and taking Superman prisoner. [ 96 ]
On their way to Ulysses' home planet, there was another confrontation between Superman and Ulysses [ 97 ] and the fight was brought to Metropolis, where Superman unleashed a new power, he didn't know he had: a super flare of solar energy, beating Ulysses for good. Unfortunately, the solar flare drained his powers for a day, leaving him as a normal human until they slowly began to come back. [ 98 ]
Blackmailed by HORDR
At the Daily Planet , Clark started to get text messages from an unnamed source that gave him tips on criminal operations that he was able to stop as Superman. Unfortunately, he got more messages from the unnamed source, who revealed they knew Clark's secret identity and forced him to capture a woman called Condesa. Realizing that Condesa knew about the person blackmailing him, Clark chose to team up with her instead. [ 99 ]
Condesa told Clark about the organization that had been stalking her called HORDR, whose leader HORDR_ROOT was behind Superman's blackmailing. As Superman went after HORDR, he was forced to reveal his secret identity to Lois Lane and, while using his new solar flare power to destroy the HORDR base, was infected with a substance by their leader that neutralized his powers. [ 100 ]
Much later, as Clark recovered, HORDR_ROOT revealed he survived their encounter and further blackmailed Superman into working with him. Clark begrudgingly agreed to play along and went to a secret facility where HORDR forced him to use his solar flare so HORDR could analyze it. Lois, not wanting Superman to suffer through the blackmail any longer, leaked his secret identity as Clark Kent to the world, as well all the information she had on HORDR. Unfortunately, though HORDR_ROOT no longer had any leverage, Superman, still weakened, was turned into public enemy #1. [ 101 ]
Defeating Vandal Savage
Public, depowered, and dying
Because of his outed identity, Clark was fired from the Daily Planet by Perry White, who felt betrayed that Clark kept such an important secret from him. [ 102 ] And, because he no longer had the powers he usually had, Superman was unable to return to the Fortress of Solitude and his advanced Kryptonian costume didn't recognize him anymore. Clark was forced to change his image - he cut his hair, improvised his signature symbol with a Superman merchandise t-shirt, and tore up his cape to fashion himself knuckle bandages. Superman still attempted to help the people of Metropolis even in his weakened state.
The mastermind behind Superman's power loss was revealed to actually be Vandal Savage , who hijacked the Stormwatch space carrier and captured the Justice League. [ 101 ] To stop Savage, Steel provided Superman with a Kryptonite-powered suit of armor. Superman and the Justice League United stormed the Watchtower, but Vandal tore the Fortress of Solitude off the ground in his plan to gain power from the comet that made him immortal in the first place. [ 103 ] Vandal used the comet's power to give superpowers to the thousands of illegitimate children he had fathered across the millennia, turning them into an army he could throw at Superman and his allies. [ 104 ]
Superman lead Earth's remaining superheroes into attacking the Stormwatch carrier and freed the Justice League. Superman attempted to stop Savage, but the villain threw him into the Fortress of Solitude, which finally acknowledges him as Kal-El of Krypton, healed his body and restored his uniform. [ 105 ]
Fully powered again, Superman attempted to stop the fight, as Vandal manipulated his children into exposing themselves to the comet's dangerous power. Unfortunately, Superman's pleas fell on deaf ears, and their bodies collapsed from the power they had absorbed. [ 106 ] Vandal offered for Superman to join his side and rule Earth, but Superman refused and broke the comet off Earth's orbit, throwing it and Vandal into deep space. [ 107 ]
The Darkseid War
Main article: Justice League: The Darkseid War
Superman as the God of Strength
When the daughter of Darkseid named Grail signaled an impending war between her father and the Anti-Monitor , Superman and Lex Luthor, still a member of the Justice League, attempted to avert the disaster. However, the two men were betrayed by Lex's sister Lena, who used a Mother Box to teleport them to Apokolips. [ 108 ] Once there, Superman and Lex were forced to work together in order to survive, especially because Apokolips was far away from a yellow sun, meaning that Superman's powers were depleting quickly. [ 109 ] As they were surrounded by Parademons, Lex, in a desperate attempt to save the Man of Steel, threw Superman into one of Apokolips' fire pits, thinking its energy would revitalize him.
Unfortunately, Apokolips' energy darkened Superman's body and mind, turning him into the God of Strength. [ 110 ] With his new power, the God of Strength destroyed the enemies surrounding him and Lex's armor [ 111 ] , leaving Luthor alone on Apokolips while he himself returned home. [ 112 ] [ 113 ]
When Superman reunited with the Justice League in his altered state, Wonder Woman was able to use her Lasso of Truth to bring Superman to his senses. [ 114 ] As the war between Darkseid and the Anti-Monitor continued to wreak havoc on Earth, [ 115 ] Superman joined the fight and briefly staggered the Anti-Monitor by blasting him with all the dark energy in his body, turning himself back to normal. The war was halted when Mobius was unexpectedly killed by Steve Trevor, who had been infected with the Anti-Life Equation by Grail. [ 116 ]
In the final fight, Lex and Steve were stripped of their powers to resurrect the fallen Darkseid as a baby. With all the enemy combatants either dead or scattered, the war was over. Unfortunately, despite expelling the Apokoliptian dark energy during the fight, the damage done to Superman's cellular structure was irreversible. According to Batman, Superman was dying. [ 117 ]
Final Days of Superman
Main article: Superman: The Final Days of Superman
As a result of cosmic upheaval of Flashpoint and Rebirth , Earth-0 had inadvertently become home to two versions of both Clark Kent and Lois Lane, split from one another during the creation of the post-Flashpoint timeline. One group appeared to be 'native' to the post-Flashpoint timeline; the other pair seemed to be remnants of the timeline's original history prior to its alteration. Though they existed apart for a time, eventually, their fates converged.
After being depowered by Vandal Savage, the events of the Darkseid War, and his fight with the Kryptonian god Rao , Superman learned that his death was imminent and asked for Batman's help to find him a successor. [ 118 ] As part of his legacy, Superman told the whole truth to Lois Lane and asked her to publish everything in the Daily Planet in order to have his history and identity revealed to the world before his death. [ 119 ] Superman told the truth to Diana, and they shared a moment before they were needed back in Metropolis, where the "Energy Superman" they had caught days earlier had escaped Stryker Island and was destroying everything. [ 120 ]
The second death of Superman
Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman together tried to stop the Energy Superman and, while doing so, were assisted by the mysterious " Superman in black ", who chose to remain unidentified for the time being. Superman took the Energy Superman to space, where he used his solar flare power to finish the threat, and the enemy evaporated in the cosmos. Superman's body fell down to Earth and, as he was surrounded by his friends, he asked the "Black Superman" to take his mantle and become the New Superman of Earth . After this, the other Superman died and turned to ashes. [ 121 ]
Within the history of Dawn of DC , the Lois Lane who acted as Superwoman is described in computer database of John Henry Irons as an alternate version of Lois Lane (a reversal of the original nature of the storyline) and as a 'remnant' of energies resulting from the Rebirth event. It is likely the same applies to Superman. [ 122 ]
DC Rebirth
History rewritten
Main article: DC Rebirth
Not long after, Mr. Mxyzptlk appeared, having been imprisoned by Mr. Oz . He initially appeared as Clark Kent, much to the confusion of all, as it was common knowledge that Superman and Clark Kent were one in the same. He began to harass Superman and revealed that both the New Earth and Prime Earth Supermen were actually two halves of the true, complete Superman, who was split during the Flashpoint incident. The same was true for Lois. [ 123 ] These alternates versions of Clark and Lois merged with the deceased essences of their Prime Earth counterparts, and each became single, complete Prime Earth versions - fixing their conflicting histories and bringing the world back to normal. [ 47 ]
Afterwards, memories of this incident were vague. However, Mxyzptlk's impersonation of Clark Kent did have a beneficial side effect; because he told others that the revelation of Superman's secret identity was a farce, a ruse needed to draw out an enemy, and because he was photographed alongside Superman, the public and many others were convinced that Superman was in fact not Clark Kent, restoring Superman's secret identity.
The Superman Revenge Squad
Main article: Superman: Revenge
As Clark and Lois got ready to move back to Metropolis from their rural home in the country, the new Hank Henshaw put together a new Superman Revenge Squad . [ 124 ] Stealing a mystical item from Superman's Himalayan backup Fortress, Henshaw turned himself back into Cyborg Superman and allied himself with Superman's greatest foes to finally destroy him. [ 125 ]
Superman was forced to retreat, taking his family to the Fortress of Solitude. The group of villains assaulted the Fortress before he had time to come up with a plan, but the Superman Family - Supergirl , Superwoman , Steel , Super-Man and Lex Luthor (also Superman ) arrived, ready to help him. [ 126 ]
During the ensuing brawl, Zod managed to send most of Superman's allies to the Phantom Zone and freed his wife Ursa and their son Lor-Zod. Superman and his family successfully defeated the rest of the Squad and freed Superman's friends. As punishment, Superman left the defeated Cyborg Superman in the Phantom Zone. [ 127 ]
Mr. Oz
The truth of Mr. Oz
After addressing several emergencies all over the world, Superman found the perpetrator of these disasters to be the mysterious force that had been watching him for years - Mr. Oz, who teleported Superman to the Fortress of Solitude and revealed himself to be Superman's Kryptonian father Jor-El . [ 128 ] Jor-El told his son about how he had survived - a mysterious entity rescued him from Krypton moments before it exploded and brought him to Earth to witness humanity's darkest impulses. Horrified by these atrocities, Jor-El became Mr. Oz and vowed to correct the decision he had made when Kal was a baby and escort him to a better planet to live. [ 129 ] Superman refused to abandon humanity though and stood by his mission to help whenever he was needed. [ 130 ]
Oz set his sights on Superman's family and made contact with Lois and Jon, hoping that, by convincing them to rebuke humanity, Kal would too. [ 131 ] Superman, furious at his father's nagging, physically fought him and shattered the man's staff, which had been mind-controlling him to do his evil actions. Back to his senses, Jor-El begged his son to do the right thing before being teleported away by the same entity that saved him before. [ 132 ]
Back to Krypton's past
Saddened by these recent events, Superman investigated if Mr. Oz was really his father by using the Flash's Cosmic Treadmill to travel back in time to Krypton's past. [ 133 ] Superman reached Krypton, where he stumbled upon time-traveler Booster Gold and Skeets , who informed the Man of Steel that his presence had distorted the timeline so that the Kryptonians began properly making preparations to evacuate their dying planet. [ 134 ] Booster attempted to forcibly return Superman to his original timeline, but one of Krypton's Eradicators damaged his time sphere, and they became trapped in 25th Century Gotham City, Booster's birthplace. [ 135 ]
Altering Krypton's history with time travel
Gaining access to a Time Sphere , Booster theorized they could now visit Krypton without risking further damage to the timeline. However, the Eradicator then, coincidentally, also damaged the time sphere, and they crash-landed and were captured on a mysterious planet that worshiped General Zod. [ 136 ] The heroes were sentenced to be executed but, before Zod and his family got the chance, Superman, Booster and Skeets caused an uprising of slaves on the planet that allowed them to escape.
Skeets reconstructed the time sphere, giving them the chance to return to the present. Before they did though, Superman convinced Booster to let him see the final moments of Krypton and, upon their arrival, watched as a mysterious blue light took Jor-El away, confirming that he was indeed Mr. Oz.
The heroes returned to the present where, in Superman's absence, his family would have died, but Booster Gold secretly rewound time to give Superman enough time to save them. [ 137 ]
Invasion of the Dark Multiverse
Main article: Dark Nights: Metal
Through unknown circumstances, the Justice League (Superman included) was captured by Mongul , who had forced the League into gladiatorial combat against machines built by a captive Toyman . Fortunately, Batman had figured out a way to help the League escape from their predicament, defeat Mongul and return to Earth. As soon as they returned, however, they discovered that a large mountain had suddenly grown in the middle of Gotham. Their investigations on the mountain led them to Kendra Saunders , who had also been investigating the mountain, believing it to be related to a mysterious region of space known as the Dark Multiverse , a region of space far removed from the limits of Universe-0. Kendra told the League that a mysterious evil from the Dark Multiverse would use Batman to unleash a great crisis upon their world and attempted to apprehend Batman, who created a distraction to escape. [ 138 ]
The Trinity faces the horrors of the Dark Multiverse
As the League searched for Batman all over the world, Superman refused to believe that his friend would be the catalyst for the Dark Multiverse's victory and instead believed that Batman could be reasoned with. Superman and the League battled through several distractions left in place by Batman until he and Wonder Woman cornered Batman in the Temple of Hath-Set , the place prophesized to be the dark army's entrance to Universe-0. Unfortunately, the Court of Owls manipulated Batman into opening the gate to the Dark Multiverse, allowing Barbatos , king of the Dark Multiverse, and his seven Dark Knights entry into Universe-0. Barbatos and his Dark Knights threw Batman into the Dark Multiverse and began draining the life-forces of Superman and Batman, intending to use them to begin his conquest of the regular Multiverse. [ 139 ]
For an entire week, Barbatos held the captured heroes into dark towers hanging above the ruins of Metropolis while subjecting Superman and Wonder Woman into terrible nightmares that convinced the heroes that they had triumphed over the dark forces of Barbatos, only to reveal that Barbatos had let them win. Against Wonder Woman's warnings, Superman attempted to defeat Barbatos all by himself, only to be ambushed by one of his Dark Knights, the Devastator . Superman was only saved by the timely interference of the Flash and taken to the Oblivion Bar, one of the last safe places on Earth. As the heroes discussed their plans to stop the invasion, Clark revealed that Bruce had sent him a warning through Barbatos' nightmares and believed he could journey into the Dark Multiverse and save him. With help from Flash and Steel, Superman traveled to the Fortress of Solitude and used modified his Phantom Zone Projector to create a portal to the Dark Multiverse. Although Superman managed to reach Batman, he was captured by the evil Supermen of the Dark Multiverse. [ 140 ]
Using the last of his strength, Batman saved Clark from the dark Supermen and asked Dream of the Endless for help in stopping Barbatos. The Prince of Stories told the World's Finest about the origins of Barbatos and the Dark Multiverse and revealed that there was a way to defeat the forces of darkness. The heroes needed to travel to the World of Forge, at the heart of creation, and use the metal from the forge to create weapons that could defeat Barbatos. Upon reaching the forge, however, the heroes found that the forge had gone dark and were ambushed by Carter Hall , who had been transformed into Barbatos' dark dragon. [ 141 ]
As Batman attempted to reason with Carter, Superman listened to Barbatos wail into the skies, intending to accelerate their universe's fall into the Dark Multiverse. The heroes distracted Carter long enough to find a spark of hope within the Forge of Worlds, just in time for the dark metals of the Dark Multiverse to start flooding the Forge. [ 142 ] Fortunately, Wonder Woman reached the lowest depths of the Forge and found Superman and Batman with the last remnants of Tenth Metal, which they used to forge armors for the entire Justice League. As the League fought Barbatos and his Dark Knights, Superman personally defeated the Devastator while using the mental powers of the Tenth Metal to bind Barbatos in cosmic chains and return the Multiverse to normal. The outcome of the battle, however, shattered the Source Wall, leaving the positive Multiverse exposed to the mysteries and dangers of whatever lied beyond. [ 143 ]
Superman as a member of Team Mystery
Peace would be short-lived, however, as Brainiac attacked Earth, captured as many superhumans as he could (Superman included) and forcibly brought them to his homeworld, Colu, which was under attack by cosmic entities known as the Omega Titans . He explained to his prisoners that he needs their help to save Colu from the Titans, who were awakened by the breaking of the Source Wall. To stop them, the superhumans of Earth would need to find the four energies connected to each of the Titans (Mystery, Wonder, Entropy and Wisdom) and achieve a balance between them, which would give the Titans no reason to consume Colu. Superman was forced to agree to Brainiac's condition and was placed with a team of fellow superhumans that embodied Mystery the same way he did. As Brainiac attempted to explain his plan, however, he suffered a seizure and died in Superman's arms. [ 144 ]
As the Justice League made planetfall, they found 4 mysterious trees made of pure information that allowed the Titans to discover which of the 4 energies was dominant on Colu. Team Mystery made its way to the Tree of Mystery, a place that held countless miniaturized cities like Kandor. [ 145 ] Martian Manhunter and Starro succeeded in awakening the prisoners from their cities and the other Justice Leagues attempted to balance the energies of the trees. Unfortunately, the Omega Titans devastated Colu and Starro sacrificed his life and bought the Leagues enough time to escape. [ 146 ]
The Justice League returned to Earth, only to find the Omega Titans already carving up a path of destruction throughout the planet thanks to a Cosmic Seed Brainiac had planted on Earth to lure the Titans away from Colu. To save the Earth, the League charged the Seed with the 4 energies of Earth and fired it at the Entropy Titan, infusing it with the 4 energies. The other Titans, attracted to the Seed, ate their own brother, and departed from Earth. Although Earth was saved, the Justice League knew that they needed to prepare against whatever challenges may come next. The rules of the universe had been broken and the universe was changing. [ 147 ]
Rampage of Rogol Zaar
Shortly after the city of Metropolis paid him a tribute for years of heroism, [ 148 ] the Kent family received an unexpected visit from Mr. Oz , who asked the Kents to let him take their son Jon on a journey across the galaxy so he could learn about his Kryptonian heritage. Clark initially refused, but Jon insisted he wanted to go. Lois, supporting her son, also agreed to stay at Jon's side for the journey so she could look after him. Clark was reluctant to see his family go, but nevertheless accepted their decision. [ 149 ]
Against the man that killed Krypton
Afterwards, a mysterious villain broke into the Fortress while Superman wasn't there, leveled the place and, most heinously, smashed the Bottle City of Kandor . [ 150 ] Superman and Supergirl tracked the murderer down and discovered his identity to be an alien named Rogol Zaar , who claimed to have been the one to destroy Krypton and wanted to finish his mission of killing all Kryptonians. Superman engaged Rogol all the way to the Moon but was defeated. Rescued by his cousin and healed by the Justice League, Superman figured out, if Rogol intended to cleanse the Kryptonian "plague", his next move would be to blow up the Earth. [ 151 ] Superman and Supergirl worked together to defeat Rogol and trapped him inside the Phantom Zone.
Unfortunately, with the Fortress destroyed, Superman could not communicate with his family and make sure they were safe. Supergirl also decided to leave Earth in order to find out more about Rogol Zaar's origins, and the Justice League held a memorial service for the murdered Kandorians. [ 149 ]
Earth in the Phantom Zone
Trapped in the Phantom Zone
After constructing a new Fortress of Solitude in the Bermuda Triangle , Superman had a conversation with Martian Manhunter , who told Superman to consider the possibility of becoming a leader to the global community, so he could lead Earth and humanity to a better tomorrow. However, before he could think on the idea, Clark realized the Earth had somehow been teleported into the Phantom Zone. [ 152 ] He later learned the ordeal was an accident caused by scientists at S.T.A.R. Labs , but, unfortunately, the opportunity allowed Rogol Zaar to attack the Earth yet again. [ 153 ]
S.T.A.R. Labs initiated a plan to restore the Earth, which involved the Atom miniaturizing the entire planet to make it small enough for the Flash to pass it through the Phantom Zone projector. The plan succeeded and the Earth was returned to its rightful place in the Solar System, but Superman was left behind to fight Rogol alone in the Phantom Zone. [ 154 ] With no solar energy to replenish his powers, Superman was badly outmatched, until he was rescued by his enemy General Zod, who agreed to a temporary truce to take revenge on the man who killed Krypton. [ 155 ] The two Kryptonians fought the villain together until Superman was abruptly beamed out of the Phantom Zone by his allies, leaving Zod and Rogol Zaar to finish their match alone. [ 156 ]
Space Wars
Superman's family returned from their space adventure with Oz , [ 157 ] but Jon was practically unrecognizable. The science of travelling through space had aged Jon up by seven Earth years, returning as a teenager. [ 156 ] Superman listened to his family's adventure stories, [ 158 ] but, before long - would you believe it  - Rogol Zaar returned again , this time working with General Zod . Superman and his Kryptonian family formed a team to finally take down Rogol Zaar once and for all, with Kal and his father going to the ruins of Krypton to look for clues about the villain. [ 159 ]
Kryptonians united
While on their trip, Jor-El told his son, while on Krypton, he was a member of the Circle, a secret cabal of intergalactic rulers that controlled the galaxy from the shadows. After helping the Circle ensure their dominance across the galaxy, Jor-El expected the Circle to help him save Krypton from its imminent destruction, but they refused. Superman was disappointed by his father's morally gray past. [ 160 ]
Rogol Zaar ambushed the heroes, but, fortunately, Zod betrayed Rogol and gave the Family of Steel the opportunity they need to incapacitate Rogol.
When the battle was finished, Superboy, wishing there was better peacekeeping throughout the galaxy, was visited by the Legion of Super-Heroes from the 31st century , who asked for his membership. [ 161 ] Although Superman was nervous at the thought of losing his son yet again, he chose to respect Jon's decision, no matter what it was. Jon deferred the decision for some time, until he decided he would accept the offer and go to the future.
Superman was also informed by Adam Strange that, due to his past crimes and instigation of the time steam, the nations of the galaxy had ruled that Jor-El was to be sent back in time to die on Krypton like he was supposed to. Kal was devastated, but the sentence was already carried out and there was nothing he could do. Jor-El was returned to Krypton, moments before destruction, where he saw his younger self send Kal on his mission of hope across the cosmos, whispering to himself assuredly, that his son 'did it'. In the aftermath, Zod and his family informed the Kents of their decision to create a "New Krypton" in order to save their race and formally invited the House of El to join them if they ever desired. [ 162 ]
Superman speaks the truth
Once he returned to Earth, Superman talked with Supergirl [ 163 ] and Adam Strange and decided to reveal his secret identity to Perry White and Jimmy Olsen, Clark's closest friends. Superman then called a press conference and revealed his identity to the entire world. [ 164 ] As the people of Earth displayed different reaction to Superman's truth [ 165 ] [ 166 ] , Superman himself worked towards protecting the United Planets from an attack by Mongul, who saw the young interstellar nation as a threat to his own galactic empire. [ 167 ] After a difficult struggle in which Mongul tried to devastate the Earth [ 168 ] , Superman defeated his opponent and was temporarily elected by the United Nations to be Earth's representative in the galactic stage. [ 169 ]
Superman uses the Helmet of Fate
After the battle with Mongul, Superman wondered whether or not revealing his secret identity to the people of the world was the right choice, so he consulted Khalid Nassour , the latest wizard to hold the mantle of Doctor Fate , [ 170 ] to verify whether some magical influence or a demonic possession pushed Clark towards revealing his identity. Superman truly understood that the choice was entirely his own and thus helped Khalid to defeat the Lord of Chaos Xanadoth in a battle that saw Superman briefly use the Helmet of Fate. [ 171 ]
Superman's greatest challenge as ambassador for Earth came in the form of Eisno Alkor, an alien super-soldier from planet Synmar, who was inspired by Superman to end his homeworld's isolationism and forcibly bring it into the galactic community. Realizing that Alkor had conquered his own homeworld in a violent revolution, Superman helped the United Planets and Synmar's resistance movement to depose Alkor and bring order back to Synmar. [ 172 ]
The Justice/Doom War
A mysterious object known as the Totality landed on the Nevada desert and the Justice League, who had just elected the Martian Manhunter as their new chairman, set out to find it. [ 173 ] Superman and Martian Manhunter's bodies were deemed strong enough to withstand the Totality's energies without negative effects, which is why Batman miniaturized himself to enter Clark's body so he could analyze the Totality. [ 174 ] Unfortunately, while Superman and Martian Manhunter went on to explore the Totality's outer structure, Lex secretly infiltrated Superman's body and used it to harness the Totality's power. [ 175 ] Despite Batman's best efforts, Lex escapes with the Totality, but not before relinquishing control of Superman's body. [ 176 ]
Afterwards, the Justice League dedicated itself towards locating the Legion of Doom's headquarters, but they had to put that search on hold when the Triumvirate of Sea Gods started their invasion on Earth. [ 177 ] During this event, Metropolis was flooded and Superman was attacked by Drogue of the Triumvirate but he was saved by Flash. [ 178 ] Joined by Mera, Superman and Flash travelled to the tomb of Arion, hoping to find the Tear of Extinction , a relic they could use to stop the Triumvirate. Once they arrived, however, the Tear had already been seized by Black Manta. [ 179 ] Fortunately, Mera was able to take the Tear away from Manta, forcing him to retreat. [ 180 ]
The Justice League reunited with Aquaman, who has acquired the Trident of Poseidon , and mounted a final assault on the Triumvirate's stronghold. Although Aquaman was able to make peace the Triumvirate, Manta attempted to use the Triumvirate's last weapon, the Death Kraken, to take over the world. Aquaman was able to stop him, seemingly sacrificing his life in the process, but the League held out hope he had survived and would eventually return to them. [ 181 ] Afterwards, a mysterious man calling himself Starman had come to the Hall of Justice to warn the Justice League about the fate of the universe, [ 182 ] but his unstable energies began coursing all over Washington D.C. until Wonder Woman restrained him with her lasso. Once his power was stabilized, Starman told Superman and his friends the story of Perpetua . [ 183 ]
The Justice League, with assistance from Starman and the Green Lantern Corps, traveled to the Source Wall in the hopes of fixing it. To do that, they gathered the surviving Omega Titans and place them along the broken wall. However, their efforts were interrupted by the resurrected Brainiac, who had become a member of Luthor's new Legion of Doom. Brainiac sabotaged the Source Wall's healing process and stole Starman's powers, using them resurrect Perpetua, creator of the Multiverse and the cosmic entity sealed behind the Source Wall. With the Wall destroyed and their mission a failure, the Justice League returned home. [ 184 ]
The Justice League had to ask Mister Mxyzptlk to open a portal to the Sixth Dimension in the hopes of stopping the Legion of Doom and Perpetua. According to Mxyzptlk, Superman was the only one capable of surviving the trip to the Sixth Dimension, so the Man of Steel volunteered to make the trip alone until he could return home and inform the Justice League of his findings. Upon stepping out of the portal, however, Superman found himself trapped in a remote planet surrounded by darkness, with no stars to power him up. [ 185 ] Superman spent an unspecified amount of time trying to escape from the planet until he found himself face-to-face with an older Superman, [ 186 ] who revealed himself to be responsible for Clark's imprisonment. The older Superman easily defeated his younger counterpart in single combat and left him to spend the rest of his life alone in the deserted planet. [ 187 ] .
Even so, Superman refused to give into despair and continued his attempts to escape from the dark planet, using a remote star as his power source. Superman was ultimately able to escape from the planet but the star disappeared, leaving Superman isolated in the middle of dark space. [ 188 ] Fortunately, Superman reached a region of space illuminated by thousands of suns, which revitalized Superman and allowed him to reach the Sixth Dimension, where the Justice League was fighting Superman's jailer, Alpheus , the World Forger. With his new power, Superman incapacitated Alpheus with a single punch but instead of punishing him for his betrayal, he extended an invitation for Alpheus to join the Justice League and an opportunity to save the Multiverse from Perpetua. [ 189 ]
To match Perpetua's army, the Justice League gathered allies from all over the Multiverse and Alpheus suggested they find his brothers, the Monitor and the Anti-Monitor . [ 190 ] Superman partook in the mission to find the Monitor on Nil [ 191 ] but they were unable to find the Anti-Matter on Oward and instead they were forced to escape from an ambush set up by the Legion of Doom. [ 192 ]
The Justice League only had 3 days to stop Perpetua and the Legion of Doom, so Starman formulated a plan to win the oncoming war: to find the missing pieces of the Totality. To that end, the Justice League needed to separate into two teams that would travel to different points in time: the past and the future. Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman would travel to the future and meet Kamandi , the last boy on Earth. [ 193 ] He informed Superman's team that the world had been devastated by Brainiac and brought them to the ruins of the Hall of Justice, where the heroes discovered they were trapped inside one of Brainiac's bottles as part of Brainiac's experiments to find to the Totality. Using one of their old ships, the Justice League travelled to a parallel future, where they were attacked by Brainiac's slaves, the Justice Legion-A . [ 194 ]
Wonder Woman released the Justice Legion from Brainiac's control and, together, they fought as allies against Brainiac [ 195 ] while Kamandi was tasked with protecting the last fragment of the Totality. [ 196 ] Kamandi brought reinforcements in the battle against Brainiac and gave Superman and his friends enough time to return the fragment of the Totality to their homeworld. [ 197 ] Unfortunately, Perpetua had regained her full power and was preparing to reshape the Multiverse to her will. [ 198 ] The Justice League and their remaining allies prepared for one final battle against Perpetua's army. [ 199 ] Superman and his friends personally confronted Lex, who had become Perpetua's most powerful soldier, amidst the ruins of Washington, D.C. [ 200 ] Martian Manhunter attempted to connect with every single person in the Multiverse in order to stop Perpetua and prove that Justice was superior to Doom, but unfortunately, the Multiverse chose Doom over Justice and the Quintessence quickly brought the Justice League to the Moon and informed them that there was still a way to stop Perpetua, but the Justice League would need to travel to the farthest reaches of the cosmos to find it, a mission the Justice League eagerly accepted. [ 201 ]
Death Metal
Unfortunately, the Justice League's mission was a failure and they were forced to return to Earth-0, which was already under attack by an army of Batmen from the Dark Multiverse, led by the Batman Who Laughs . Superman himself was defeated by the Darkfather , imprisoned within the depths of the Sun [ 202 ] and infected with the Anti-Life Equation. With Superman's defeat, Earth-0 fell under the rule of the Batman Who Laughs and the last remaining superheroes went into hiding. [ 203 ]
Infected by Anti-Life.
Superman was later transferred to New Apokolips, where was tortured by the Darkfather until he was rescued by Batman and Wonder Woman. After defeating Darkfather, Superman helped his friends release an army of superheroes imprisoned within New Apokolips and Wonder Woman enlisted them on all on a mission to defeat Perpetua. For that, Superman and his friends needed to travel to the Dark Multiverse and gather enough power to heal the Multiverse. [ 204 ] Superman and his friends infiltrated Castle Bat, home of the Batman Who Laughs, and came across the imprisoned Barbatos, who refused to help the heroes defeat his own treacherous Dark Knight, causing a bored Superman to knock him out. The heroes reached a portal that would take them across different points in the Multiverse's history, each with its own special kind of Crisis energy that could be used to stop the spread of the Dark Multiverse. Superman was sent to the time of the Final Crisis, where he was attacked by Darkseid and a group of Supermen infected by the Anti-Life Equation. [ 205 ]
Darkseid attempted to turn Superman into another one of his slaves, but Superman was rescued by Wonder Woman, who had convinced Superboy-Prime to join the Justice League and stop Perpetua. Unfortunately, once they returned to Earth-0, they discovered the Batman Who Laughs had become the Darkest Knight, a cosmic god as powerful as Perpetua, and created his own Multiverse, the Last 52 Multiverse . [ 206 ] The Darkest Knight summoned Castle Bat to kill Superman and his friends. Although Lex defeated Castle Bat, Superman was reluctant to trust him until Lex made him realize that only together could they stop the Darkest Knight. Lex convinced a group to build a machine powered by Anti-Crisis energy, the only thing capable of healing the Multiverse. The heroes of Earth-0 raised an army to make a final stand against the Darkest Knight and give Wonder Woman enough time to find the materials to build the Anti-Crisis weapon. [ 207 ]
Before the final battle began, however, Superman constructed a time-shifting device that could rewind 60 minutes of time, enough time for Superman to help as many people as he could. The device gave out and Superman returned to the frontlines, but not before spending one last moment of peace with Lois and Jon. [ 208 ] As the Darkest Knight killed Perpetua, Superman and his army prepared to fight the army of the Dark Multiverse, just in time for Wonder Woman, powered by the Anti-Crisis energy, to return to her allies. [ 209 ] Surrounded by the Supermen of the Dark Multiverse, Clark attempted to reason with them and make them see the better part of themselves. His words fell on deaf ears, however, and the Man of Steel was forced to fight, even with his powers severely depleted by Anti-Life. Fortunately, Superman's family and a group of his villains, led by Lex were quick to support him in battle. [ 210 ]
Superman was about to be killed by the Last Sun until Lex sacrificed his life to save him and destroy the Last Sun, while Wonder Woman destroyed the Darkest Knight, healed the Multiverse and resurrected everyone who had died in the conflict. Cured from Anti-Life, Superman returned home and joined his friends in exploring and protecting the Multiverse they had fought so hard to save. [ 211 ]
Infinite Frontier
The Authority and the Warworld Saga
Superman assembles The Authority
In an encounter with aliens from the Breach, Superman was exposed to deadly radiation. [ 212 ] [ 213 ] The resulting radiation sickness caused him to age rapidly and his powers to fade, and so he assembled a team to help protect and improve the world if he were to die or be unable to act as Superman anymore. [ 214 ] He called this team The Authority and enlisted the aid of two members, the Enchantress and Manchester Black , to conceal and slow the progression of his condition. [ 215 ]
The Authority's first mission became clear when an alien craft carrying refugees from Warworld crashed to Earth. The refugees were part of a long-lost group of Kryptonians called the Phaelosians who had been enslaved on Warworld for generations, and Superman swore to free them. [ 216 ] The Phaelosians' ship had also been carrying a powerful energy source known as the Genesis Fragment, which Atlantis laid claim to, heightening tensions with the surface and almost leading to war. Superman confiscated the Fragment and warned both sides against trying to take it, giving the Justice League no choice but to expel him. [ 217 ]
Before Superman left for Warworld, Batman asked him for a favor; he had received visions from a wounded and dying Fuginaut trapped in the Dark Multiverse.  He asked Superman to bring his new team into the Dark Multiverse and attempt to resolve the situation. Superman agreed, and both entered the Dark Multiverse alongside the Authority in order to combat the Empire of Shadows . [ 218 ]
Taken captive by the Mongul-Who-Is
Superman and the Authority journeyed to Warworld, despite warnings that it was almost certainly a trap set by Mongul . Indeed, Mongul was waiting for them and a sorceress working for him reversed the effects of the Enchantress's magic which had been rejuvenating Superman. [ 215 ] Superman was forced to fight in the arenas of Warworld, powerless due to the red solar radiation which saturated the world. He asked a veteran Phaelosian gladiator named Kryl-Ux to teach him how to fight without his powers. [ 219 ] Superman became a more adept fighter and managed to inspire some of his fellow slaves, but he received a message from Midnighter saying that he was planning to destroy the star forges which generated the red solar radiation. This would restore Superman's powers but also kill millions of people. Kryl-Ux told him there may be another way and led him to an isolated part of Warworld's catacombs made of the same material as the Genesis fragment. Superman was able to absorb the cosmic energy of the rock and restore his powers. [ 220 ]
In time, Superman earned a reputation as the "Unbloodied Sword", the warrior that spared his opponents instead of killing them, [ 220 ] and inspire a true rebellion among the slaves of Warworld. He also became a father figure to two young Phaelosian siblings, Osul and Otho-Ra . [ 221 ] Under the advice of Kryl-Ux, Superman embarked on a quest for the fire of Olgrun, a relic of godly power that could end Mongul's reign over Warworld. Although Superman himself had no use for such power, he still chose to search for it, if only to keep Mongul from using it. [ 222 ]
Superman successfully recovered the fire of Olgrun from its resting place, only to find Mongul demanding Superman to surrender the fire, lest Mongul would kill Osul and Otho. [ 223 ] Rather than risk letting the fire fall into Mongul's hands, Superman entrusted the fire to Osul, just in time for the rebels of Warworld to modify Warworld's solar energy generators and switch their radiation from red to white. Superman recovered his powers and was cured from the radiation poisoning he got from the Breach, while Mongul died at the hands of Kryl-Ux, who admitted he had used Superman as a pawn in his own scheme to take revenge on Mongul. Although Kryl-Ux escaped, Superman's mission to liberate Warworld was complete, allowing Superman and his allies to triumphantly return to Earth. [ 224 ]
Dark Crisis
After spending a day of peace with Lois, [ 224 ] Superman returned to active duty by making an impassionate plea to the United Nations to offer safe haven to Warworld's refugees until they could find a new world to settle upon. [ 225 ] He also allowed Osul and Otho to stay over at the Kent apartment and made efforts to protect Osul from Orion, who recognized Osul as the bearer of the fire of Olgrun. [ 226 ] Although Orion was forced to retreat, he promised to find a way to remove the fire from Osul, despite Superman's protests. [ 227 ]
Superman's reunion with the Justice League, however, was cut short [ 228 ] when the League was called upon to fight yet another Multiversal threat, this time in the form of Pariah , an ancient scientist whose universe had been destroyed during the Crisis of Infinite Earths. Pariah had channelled the power of the Great Darkness , a primal force that existed before the birth of the Multiverse, to create a Dark Army composed of enslaved supervillains, including Darkseid and Doomsday, and created a machine that would recreate the worlds destroyed during the Crisis on Infinite Earths, a goal that could destroy Earth-0. Although Superman attempted to reason with Pariah, the renegade scientist refused to back down and activated his machine and the Justice League, Superman included, was caught in its energies. [ 229 ]
Superman absorbs the power of a pocket dimension to fight Pariah
Pariah's machine did not kill Superman, but rather, it placed him in a pocket dimension that represented Superman's deepest desire: the long-lost desire to see Jon's entire life, from childhood to adulthood. Although Superman was initially happy to live in a world in which he could see his son become a man, [ 230 ] he came to realize that this world was not real and dedicated himself towards finding a way to escape. He learned to control the illusion's energies and used this power to return to the real world and fight Pariah once again. [ 231 ]
Superman and his friends joined Earth's remaining superheroes in fighting Pariah's Dark Army, with Clark personally saving Jon from a still-enslaved Doomsday. The Justice League ultimately sealed Pariah in his own fantasy world, but Deathstroke obtained control of the Great Darkness and attempted to destroy the Multiverse. [ 232 ] Black Adam transferred his magical powers to Earth's superheroes, allowing them to defeat the Dark Army, while Doctor Light and the Flash Family purified the Multiverse from the Great Darkness' infection. Although the Dark Crisis had ended, the Justice League was disbanded and its individual members chose to go separate ways. Clark and Jon thanked Black Adam for his help during the crisis, acknowledging that, despite their differences, they were in the same side, at least for now. [ 233 ]
Project Blackout and Supercorp
Soon after the Crisis, Luthor came to the realization that he and Superman should work together. However, he should not be his equal, that Clark should be the outsider alien he always believed him to be. To that end, Luthor initiated Project Blackout , using Henry Bendix's technology, Warworld technology and the psychic powers of Manchester Black to erase the memory of Clark and Jon's identities from the world. Superman would see the aftereffects of this as Perry White, being faced with Superman at the Kent Farm, suffered a heart attack as his mind couldn't handle what was seen. Luthor lured Superman to Lexcorp Tower using a special watch based off of Jimmy Olsen's Signal Watch and revealed what he had done.
Furious, Superman battled Luthor, who ranted that Superman should have told Luthor that he was an outsider like him first and wanted to punish him for telling the world before him. When he revealed that Project Blackout killed Black, Superman became enraged over the death of a man he had given a second chance and willingly took it only for Luthor to snuff it out. Defeating Luthor, he took him to jail for Black's murder.
He later met with Batman and Nightwing and learned that, outside of those within the Kent Farm and its barrier when Project Blackout struck, the Justice League, the Titans and their reservists still knew of Clark and Jon's identity thanks to psychic shields by the Martian Manhunter. Batman convinced him to use this as a second chance, as he believed that he, Lois and Jon lost something when he revealed his identity to the world. [ 234 ]
After Lex's defeat, Clark and Lois announced their plans to formally adopt Osul and Otho into the Superman Family, and the media dubbed the young Phaelosians as the "Super-Twins". The reorganized Superman Family's first mission was the defense of the new Steelworks Tower, an institute founded by John and Natasha Irons as a way to properly research and develop new technologies for the benefit of mankind, from a reconstructed and enhanced Metallo. [ 235 ] Although the Superman Family foiled Metallo's first assault on Steelworks Tower [ 236 ] , Metallo attacked Steelworks again, this time with an army of zombie cyborgs called "Necro-Drones". Metallo ordered his Necro-Drones to self-destruct and injure Supergirl, forcing the Superman Family to help Supergirl while Metallo escaped.
Believing Lex to be responsible for Metallo's rampage, Superman confronted Lex on prison, but Lex claimed no responsibility for Metallo's actions. [ 237 ] Metallo would cause trouble in Metropolis a third time and kidnap the Super-Twins in an attempt to lure Superman into a trap. Fortunately, Superman rescued the Super-Twins and used his Genesis-enhanced powers to defeat Metallo, who claimed that his sister Tracy was in danger and all this time, he had been following the orders of her unseen kidnapper to protect her. Superman agreed to help Metallo save his sister, but nevertheless told him that Metallo would have to pay for all the people he had killed. [ 238 ]
A horde of Necro-Drones attacked A-Town, the apartment complex in Metropolis where the Warworld refugees were housed. While the Superman Family defended A-Town from the Necro-Drones, Superman deduced that Hank Henshaw, the Cyborg Superman, was the real mastermind behind these recent attacks. With the Necro-Drones temporarily defeated, Superman reluctantly activated a copy of the Eradicator to track down Henshaw's latest body to an airport. Superman, his Family and Metallo mounted an assault at Henshaw's base, only to find that Henshaw had transformed Tracy Corben into a cyborg, just like his brother. [ 239 ] The Superman Family deactivated Henshaw's Necro-Drones and Metallo destroyed Henshaw, but Tracy is left badly damaged during the battle, but Superman granted the Corben siblings safe asylum at Steelworks Tower. [ 240 ]
Superman and Lex forced to protect Metropolis together
Shortly before he was arrested, Lex had made Superman the legal owner of LexCorp, which he had renamed "Supercorp" in Superman's honor. Initially, Superman refused to take control of the company formerly owned by his greatest enemy, but Mercy Graves , Lex's assistant, told him that Lex had threatened to dissolve the company and fire his countless employees unless Superman took control. [ 241 ] Superman reluctantly agreed and used Supercorp's resources to protect Metropolis from both the Parasite [ 242 ] [ 243 ] and the Silver Banshee [ 244 ] [ 245 ] who had been both mutated by a mysterious pair of scientists that, according to Lex, had a vendetta against him. Lex explained that, before Superman's arrival, he tried to be a hero and protect the city's downtrodden masses from Pharm and Graft, two scientists who performing unethical experiments on kidnapped victims and they must have been responsible for the mutations of both Parasite and Banshee. [ 244 ] Later, while trying to find Pharm and Graft, Superman stumbled upon a holographic message left by them in the ruins of Metropolis, warning him about something called "Project Chained". [ 245 ]
In his quest to discover what "Project Chained" was, Superman agreed to use Supercorp's resources and ultimately found this project was an experiment in which Lex attempted to build a special prison for superpowered criminals. Only one prison cell was built, located deep beneath Stryker's Island. Superman and Mercy Graves went there and attempted to free its prisoner, Sammy Stryker , only to figure out that Stryker wanted revenge on Lex for imprisoning him in the first place. [ 246 ] Superman escaped from the special prison and intercepted Stryker with help from his family [ 247 ] and Lex explained his old history with the Chained and that they needed to lock him up again. Superman put on a special suit equipped with Kryptonite gauntlets and kept the Chained occupied long enough for Superboy to put him back into his cell. Unfortunately, Superman was severely exposed to the Kryptonite [ 248 ] and had to spend days at Supercorp's medical wing before recovering. Knowing that Pharm and Graft would continue targeting people wronged by Lex, Superman headed back into the field with a special armor, just in time to help Marilyn Moonlight in a fight against Graft, who immediately teleported them into the days of the Wild West. [ 249 ]
Superman in the Wild West
Superman and Marilyn spent days trapped in the Wild West, looking for a way to return home, and confronted Terra-Man, who had equipped they could use to return to present. After defeating Terra-Man and returning home, Superman went to the Supercorp tower to see if his employees were safe, only to be ambushed by Pharm and Graft, who had formed a new Lex Luthor Revenge Squad and wanted Superman to join them. [ 250 ] Graft exposed Superman to red Kryptonite and attempted to make him kill Lex, only for Lex to bring him back to normal by exposing him to green Kryptonite. Unfortunately, Lex's mother, Leticia , had conspired with the Revenge Squad to release a cloud of Kryptonite gas all over Metropolis in an attempt to destroy his son's legacy. [ 251 ] Lex defeated his mother while Superman neutralized the Kryptonite cloud, saving the city, but Superman couldn't help but wonder why did the Revenge Squad wait for this particular moment to restart their vendetta against Lex. [ 252 ]
Blue Earth and Bizarro
A radical humanocentric movement, the Blue Earth , started to gain popularity in Metropolis and its leader, Norah Stone, offered an exclusive interview to the Daily Planet . Clark was put in charge of the interview and, although he deduced that Stone was lying, she was able to frame the Blue Earth's mission as the preservation of humanity. During and after the interview, Clark grew steadily weaker and was attacked by Stone's bodyguard, Dorian, who had somehow drained Clark of his powers. [ 253 ] Luckily, Clark used Lex's old anti-Kryptonians weapons and Dorian's own inexperience with Kryptonian powers to defeat him and discovered that he had used a mysterious green bracelet to regain his powers. Still, Clark's powers would take time to fully recharge, so he asked John Henry to build a special armor for combat. [ 254 ]
With his new armor, Superman easily defeated a gang of Blue Earthers that somehow gained Kryptonian powers and were hurting criminals. Superman's powers were slowly restored, and he deduced that Stone was giving powers to her followers to demonize aliens and strengthen her political stance. He then remembered his old adventure with Batman and the Authority into the Dark Multiverse [ 218 ] and realized that Stone was actually Janan al Ghul , and she had just kidnaped Otho. [ 255 ] To find Otho, Superman asked John Constantine 's help and they invaded Blue Earth's headquarters and liberated Etrigan and Bloodwynd from their prison, and together, they travelled to Earth al Ghul to save Otho and stop Janan. [ 256 ]
Upon their arrival, Superman and his allies attacked the al Ghul's citadel, just as Janan was preparing her invasion of Earth-0. Janan had also brainwashed Otho into attacking her adoptive father, but Superman's love for her daughter allowed her to break free from the brainwashing and Janan was forced to begin her invasion prematurely. Superman and his allies returned home, just in time for the Superman Family and the Blue Earthers to join forces and defend their world together. After a fierce battle, Janan is defeated and Etrigan throws her soul into Hell. [ 257 ] Unfortunately, peace did not last for long, as Bizarro returned to wreak havoc on Metropolis yet again. Bizarro had stolen multiple magical artifacts from across the multiverse and began casting a spell that would have severe consequences on the city and its people. Superman believed Bizarro had lost control of the spell and tried to save him, but Bizarro completed the spell and disappeared in a mystical explosion. Suddenly, everyone in the city began transforming into Bizarros, with the original Bizarro taking control of Superman's mind and body. [ 258 ]
Battle for the soul of Metropolis
Through sheer willpower, Superman fought Bizarro's mental domination and tried to find a way to undo his spell, all the while trying to prevent the citizens of Metropolis from hurting each other. The superhero community isolated Metropolis from the rest of the world and Superman elected to stay behind and help the people in whatever way he could, but despite his best efforts, the quarantine failed, and Bizarro's spell ultimately spread across the world. Superman believed himself to be the only person unaffected by the spell, so he decided to request assistance from the only sane person left on Earth: the Joker. [ 259 ] Using Kryptonian meditation techniques and guidance from the Bizarro Joker, Superman travelled deep into his mind to confront Bizarro, who was still trying to usurp control of Superman's body. After a long mental battle in which Superman died repeatedly, the Man of Steel ultimately gained Bizarro's magical knowledge and used it to undo his spell, even if that meant turning the Joker back into a ruthless murderer. Although the crisis was over, a small piece of Bizarro remained in Superman's mind, but Superman promised to himself to ignore and just be the best version of himself. [ 260 ]
Brainiac and Waller's war on superheroes
Just as Clark and Lois were enjoying a day off, Brainiac would an unleash an army of Czarnians and robots upon Metropolis and orchestrate the kidnapping of every single metahuman in the city, including members of the Superman Family. Superman faced off against the Czarnian general Chacal and demands to be taken to Brainiac, but Lex offered himself in Superman's place, as Brainiac had kidnapped Lex's daughter, Lena, and needed Superman to save their people. After the attack, Superman decided that the only way to find Brainiac would be to find Lobo. [ 261 ] He tracked Lobo down to Coast City and angrily demanded to learn about his connection to Brainiac but Lobo replied that he had no idea what Superman was talking about, until Superman showed him footage of Brainiac's attack and Lobo was surprised to learn that Chacal was involved and decided to help Superman find Chacal, whom Lobo considered a personal idol. The United Planets had established a blockade around the Earth, and to get past it, Supercorp provided Superman and Lobo with spaceworthy motorcycles. Although Superman and Lois successfully bypassed the blockade, they are intercepted by Chacal's forces [ 262 ]
Chacal and his thugs distracted Superman and Lobo enough for Brainiac's ship to escape from Superman's sight, so Lobo took the Man of Steel to Hardcore Stations, a place where they could find information about Brainiac. Unfortunately, Chacal tracked them down and convinced Lobo to betray Superman in exchange for an opportunity to replace him as leader of his gang. [ 263 ] With help from Chacal and his men, Lobo captured Superman and took to Brainiac, who was already waiting for him. Brainiac connected Superman and other metahumans to a special machine that power up his latest creation: a Queen that could absorb the powers of other metahumans. Upon her activation, the Queen was consumed by a destructive appetite that could her to kill Chacal and his men. [ 264 ]
Angry at Brainiac's betrayal, Lobo released Superman, who told his allies to protect Lena, who had been used by Brainiac as a living processor for his ship. Using his tactile telekinesis, Superboy disabled the Queen while Superman and his allies labored to save the cities bottled within Brainiac's ship. Lex came up with a plan to defeat Brainiac but it would involve him and Lena to get inside Brainiac's network and shut it down from within while Superman and his Family fought Brainiac and his forces directly. [ 265 ] Lex and Lena managed to delete Brainiac's entire database but his ship sustained heavy damage during the battle. Brainiac, having lost his entire network and consumed by irrational emotion, begged Superman to save the last city of Colu, which he had preserved before the Omega Titans destroyed the planet. Superman agreed and forcibly separated the Coluan city from Brainiac's ship before it exploded. The survivors from Brainiac's countless attacks settled on an artificial planet called "Colu 2.0" to rebuild their civilization, while Superman and his family returned. Unfortunately, exposure to Brainiac's database had left Lex with amnesia. [ 266 ]
Without his powers, Superman takes a bullet
Superman and his allies would not have time to rest on their laurels, however, as Amanda Waller had unleashed an group of robots, Task Force VII , to steal the powers of every metahuman on Earth. One of those robots, the Last Son , stole the powers of not just Superman, but also those of Conner and Jon. Superman fell victim to Last Son when he was busy stopping a robbery and thus took a bullet to the chest while Last Son kidnapped Jon. [ 267 ] Superman was rushed to the Fortress of Solitude, which had become a makeshift refuge to any victim from Task Force VII, and was subjected to a surgery by Mr. Terrific and Dr. Mid-Nite . Although his life was saved, the number of depowered superhumans was growing and Zatanna, who had been taken to the Fortress by Mercy, suggested a plan that could help them beat Waller, but it involve crossing into the Dark Roads, a realm of magic. [ 268 ]
At the Fortress, Nightwing assumed leadership of the depowered superheroes, while Superman and Batman would outfit their allies with special suits that would replicate their lost powers. Unfortunately, the Fortress would be hit by the Brainiac Queen, reconstructed by Waller to serve her cause. During the battle, Superman would be treated to a terrible sight: Jon had been brainwashed and turned into a slave for Waller. The Man of Steel tried to help his son, but he was ultimately forced to order a retreat and activate the Fortress' self-destruct protocol. Superman was almost captured by the Queen and it was only through Dreamer 's sacrifice that Superman escaped into the Phantom Zone and regroup with his friends. [ 269 ] The world's superheroes set up a new base of operations in Themyscira, while Superman and Zatanna travelled to the Justice League Dark's old headquarters and found a passage to the Parliament of Trees. During their journey, they were attacked by Waller's forces until they found a portal to the Oblivion Bar, where the demon lord Neron was waiting for them. He said he could give them the Map of Mordru, an object that could help them navigate the Dark Roads, but they would have to pay a high price for it. [ 270 ]
Instead of asking for Superman's soul, Neron asked Superman, a living embodiment of truth, to lie, a clear violation of his principles and ideals; and Superman accepted. Zatanna was concerned over Superman's decision, but the Man of Steel believed the importance of their mission was worth the stain on his conscience. With the map, Superman and Zatanna gained access to the Dark Roads but the map started draining Zatanna's life force in the process. Upon reaching the House of Heroes , they found it destroyed and only Dr. Light present. Suddenly, they were attacked by Konfusion , one of the Bureau of Sovereignty 's agents, but Superman and his friends escaped from the Bleed and returned home to reunite with Lois and Mercy, who were waiting for Superman at the ruins of the Fortress. Lois and Mercy decided to return to Metropolis and publish the truth about Waller's actions, while Superman travelled to Themyscira, which had become a temporary base of operations for the superhuamn resistance, to prepare for a final attack on Waller'a base. [ 271 ] The superheroes endured an attack from the Brainiac Queen and released Jon from her control, much to Superman's relief. [ 272 ]
The united heroes began their assault on Waller's base of operations, located deep in Gamorra, and faced heavy opposition from the Bureau of Sovereignty and Task Force VII. Luckily, the tide turned in the heroes' favor when Green Arrow, having revealed himself to be a mole within the Bureau, shot a special device invented by Batman at Waller's robots, causing them to lose their powers and the heroes, Superman included, to regain them. With Task Force VII destroyed and Waller detained, Superman helped Hal Jordan and the Flashes stop a multiversal army of villains from invading their universe, but this was not a clean victory for the heroes. As the Fortress of Solitude underwent extensive reconstructions, Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman reprimanded Green Arrow for his undercover actions, while Green Arrow countered that Waller would not have given them trouble in the first place had the Justice League been there to stop her, a sentiment Superman and his friends agreed with, and so, efforts to rebuild and expand the League began. [ 273 ]
All In
Journey into the Phantom Zone
As the world struggled to recover from Waller's attempt to seize power, Superman and Supergirl were attacked by three Kryptonians from the Phantom Zone that had been forcibly combined into a single, hideous creature. With help from Jimmy and Supergirl, Superman removed the creature's powers with gold Kryptonite and took it to Kandor, where a scientist explained that Kandor had lost its surveillance equipment on the Phantom Zone after the Brainiac Queen had attacked the Fortress. Superman theorized that the Zone was undergoing some kind of change and decided to investigate. He took with him special bracelets that would keep his powers replenished in the sunless Zone and left his family to defend Earth in his absence. [ 274 ] As Superman materialized within the Zone, he was attacked by a band of criminals that still held a grudge against Jor-El for imprisoning them. He quickly captured the criminals and forced them to take him to their boss, until they were ambushed by the Val-Kon, the ship of Xa-Du. When Superman was brought onboard, however, he was surprised to see that it was not Xa-Du who was in charge of the ship, but his old friend Mon-El. [ 275 ]
Brothers reunited
Mon-El, having imprisoned Xa-Du and taken control of his ship in Superman's absence, explained that the Zone was becoming a physical realm thanks to the actions of an entity known as Aethyr, who had promised to release the Zone's prisoners from their eternal torment. Aethyr created physical realms within the Zone and made the Zoners corporeal again. The violent criminals quickly returned to their old ways once they were able to hurt each other, and a disgusted Aethyr enslaved them and appointed Xa-Du as his warden. When the Val-Kon passed an immaterial region in the Zone, Xa-Du took this opportunity to escape and reunite with Aethyr. [ 276 ]
To stop Aethyr, Superman and the Val-Kon's crew travelled to Aethyropolis, the center of Aethyr's power. There, they were attacked by Aethyr's army and Xa-Du destroyed the device Superman was going to use to return to Earth. Superman was ambushed by Aethyr, who was displeased by Xa-Du's failure to control the Phantom Zone and threw both Superman and Xa-Du to the eye of the Phantom Zone, a place in which multiple points of time and space were intertwined. Superman attempted to escape back to Earth by crossing one of the countless cracks in the void, but instead of reaching Earth, he was thrown into Krypton's past. [ 277 ] While exploring the city of Kryptonopolis, Superman deduced that he had travelled back to a time shortly before Krypton's destruction and resolved to find a way home. To do that, he hid his identity under the alias "Klar Ken" and went to the House of El for help in recharging his solar batteries. Jor-El invited Superman to his lab and revealed his theory that Krypton would soon explode, but suddenly, representative from the Science Council called Ro-Zan burst into the lab and arrested Jor-El for developing technology without the Council's permission. Superman attempted to defend his father but was knocked out and arrested, as well. [ 278 ]
After their arrest, Superman, Jor-El and Lara were called to stand trial before the Council for the charge of hoarding special technology for themselves. Because of his lifetime of achievements, the Council has agreed to let Jor-El and his allies walk free, but his latest invention, the Phantom Zone projector, would be left under the Council's custody, much to Jor-El's protests. This development shocked Superman as, all this time, he had believed that his father had proposed the usage of the Phantom Zone as a form of rehabilitation for dangerous criminals. Upon leaving the Council's chambers, Jor-El revealed that he and Lara secretly recovered Superman's solar bracelets. Jor-El took Superman to the home of his brother Zor-El, where they hoped they could repair and recharge the bracelets. [ 279 ]
Zor-El told Superman that he could recharge his solar batteries with his photonic converter, but Ro-Zan has already confiscated it. When a groundquake hit Argo City, Superman told Zor-El that his brother's warnings about Krypton's impending doom might be correct. Zor-El angrily dismissed that theory, for he believed that his brother was disgracing the El name. He threw Superman and the Els out of his house and told them never to come again. With no other options, Superman was forced to sneak into the Science Council's building and try to find Zor's photonic converter so he could recharge his solar bracelets. With his powers fully recharged, Superman returned to the Phantom Zone using the same portal that took him to Krypton in the first place, but upon his arrival, he found that the Zone was starting to collapse. [ 280 ] The Zone was becoming increasingly unstable due to the presence solid matter, and Superman reunited with Mon-El, who revealed that Aethyr had been using Earth's sun as a power source to create solid matter within the Zone. Superman begged Aethyr to stop his plans to reshape the Zone, but Aethyr refused to listen and instead used more solar energy to increase his size until he was crushed under his own mass. All that remained of Aethyr was a sphere he had been using to convert energy into matter and Mon-El used it to create a portal that led Superman back to Earth. [ 281 ]
Superman returned to Earth just in time to save his fellow members of the Super-Family from a fall from orbit after they had exhausted their solar powers in a conflict with the villainous Grax. At the Fortress of Solitude, Mr. Terrific explained that the Sun's decay could be halted if Superman flew deep into the Sun and destroyed the device Aethyr had planted there to convert solar energy into matter within the Phantom Zone. He also warned that destroying the device would likely have catastrophic consequences for the Zone and its prisoners, which is why Superman gave the Phantom Zone projector to Jon and Supergirl and instructed them to travel to a distant planet with a red sun and evacuate the prisoners there. Such plan, however, was met with opposition from Bry-Zan, a high-ranking elected official from Kandor and daughter of Ro-Zan. She warned that releasing prisoners from the Zone without authorization from Kandor would result in Superman's permanent banishment from Kandor, but Superman chose to stick to the plan and save as many as he could. Outfitted with a special armor constructed by his friends, Superman flew into the Sun and successfully destroyed Aethyr's device. Although the Sun was revitalized and Superman's powers were replenished, the Man of Steel was horrified to discover that the Zone's prisoners had escaped and gained powers, as well. [ 282 ]
The Kryptonian criminals severely injured Superman and went on to attack the Earth, while Mon-El rescued Superman and took him to a lead mine in India where he could recover. Superman woke up after two days of rest, and Jimmy and Mon-El informed him about what had happened when he was unconscious. Once he joined the defense of Earth, Superman tried to find his Gold Kryptonite isotope so he could use it to depower the Phantom Zone escapees, only to discover that someone else had taken it. Although the Super-Family and the Justice League successfully apprehended a huge portion of the Zoners, Batman informed Superman that some of the Kryptonians had already spread out into outer space and were attacking foreign planets. [ 283 ] The heroes of Earth mobilized teams across the galaxy to capture the Zoners as quickly as possible, with Superman working alongside Mon-El to defeat Ras-Krom on Grenda. They later went to Braal to intercept Jax-Ur, who revealed that he had stolen the Gold Kryptonite hidden by Superman, but luckily, Mon-El trapped Jax-Ur back in the Zone before he could use it. [ 284 ]
Mon-El's special equipment, which allowed him to interact with the material world, became damaged and he was forced to return to the Zone, leaving Superman and his friends to continue the mission on their own. To capture the Zoners much more quickly, Superman and his friends built a large Phantom Zone projector and set up a trap to lure them into the projector, with Martian Manhunter assuming the form of Xa-Du to attract the escapees into the trap. The plan worked, and the escapees, including Xa-Du, were sent back into the Zone again. Supergirl also convinced the council of Kandor to allow Zoners for the possibility of parole. Mon-El was selected to be the Zone's "warden" and Superman reaffirmed his promise to find a way to cure his friend and release him from the Zone. [ 285 ]
Return of the Justice League and Infection from Red Kryptonite
A new beginning for the Justice League
Superman invited as many heroes as he could to the reformed Justice League and was present at the opening ceremony of the new Watchtower, an event interrupted by a sudden assault from Darkseid, who had absorbed the Spectre to increase his power. Zatanna enchanted Superman with a spell that not only released the Spectre from Darkseid's control, but seemingly destroyed the Dark Lord of Apokolips, as well. Darkseid's apparent death opened a gateway to the mysterious Elseworld, Earth-Alpha, and Superman declared that the new League's first official mission had begun. Booster Gold volunteered to investigate Earth-Alpha, but the League lost contact with him as soon as he stepped into the gateway. [ 286 ] Unfortunately, the new League couldn't spare the time to locate Booster, for it had to answer the threat of the mysterious terrorist organization Inferno, which had unleashed an army of machines to attack a village in South Africa. [ 287 ]
Inferno was ultimately revealed to be composed by members of the Legion of Doom that Gorilla Grodd , empowered by Martian Manhunter's telepathy, had gathered from the past. The younger villains stormed the Watchtower and trapped the heroes in different parts of the timeline [ 288 ] and Grodd absorbed Omega energy released by Darkseid's apparent death to become a godlike entity. [ 289 ] Luckily, the League assembled back in the present, gathered reinforcements from across the timeline and defeated Grodd and the Legion of Doom, but the timeline suffered severe damage during the conflict. [ 290 ]
Although Waller was imprisoned and her forces had been detained, some of the superpowers they had stolen had failed to return to their original owners. Some superhumans had switched powers, while other powers have been spread out across the entire globe and found new owners. [ 273 ] One of those new superhumans was Lois, who had acquired powers similar to those of Superman from General Zod, and she used them to go on many adventures with her husband. Superman and the new Superwoman were ambushed by Doomsday, who had escaped imprisonment from Hell. To make matters worse, Superman was visited by a future Doomsday who had become the latest entity to bear the mantle of the Time Trapper . [ 291 ] The Time Trapper wanted Superman's help to evolve to a newer, more powerful form and stated that everyone Superman knew and loved would be destroyed by an unknown enemy . Superman refused to help the Time Trapper, who simply departed and said that Superman would help him sooner or later. Present Doomsday continued his attack on Metropolis and Supercorp attempted to stop him by having Parasite absorb his power but Doomsday ripped Parasite in half, and Superman was forced to beat Doomsday into unconsciousness so that Supercorp could capture him. [ 292 ]
After Doomsday's capture, Superman took Superwoman on a date, during which they performed a few superhero activities together. He even confessed that the injection of red Kryptonite he got from the Lex Luthor Revenge Squad [ 251 ] was still affecting him. Their date ended with the arrival of the Aftermath, a collective of alien survivors whose planets had been destroyed by Doomsday, above the skies of Metropolis. The Aftermath demanded that Doomsday be handed over to them, lest they would destroy the Earth. [ 293 ] Superman and Superwoman were allowed into the Aftermath's flagship, where they met Aftermath's leader, and tried to negotiate a peaceful solution. The Aftermath's leader, revealed to be the Radiant, continued his threats to destroy the Earth unless Doomsday was handed over, but Superman insisted to learn the purpose behind Doomsday's creation and the Aftermath's purpose for Doomsday once they captured. Enraged that his demands were not met, the Radiant began his attack on Metropolis and tried to steal Doomsday from Supercorp, and Superman, once again at risk from his Red-K infection, was forced to defend Doomsday from the Aftermath's forces. [ 294 ]
During the battle, Superman briefly succumbed to his Red-K infection and nearly killed the Time Trapper before Lois helped him regain control of himself, while Lex trapped Doomsday, the Radiant and his army into a temporally frozen bottle based on Brainiac's technology, but Jimmy was left injured. [ 295 ] Lex and Mercy later informed Superman and Superwoman about the technology developed by Supercorp to be sold in the open market, but Superman was reluctant to do it, fearing it could be used for offensive purposes. [ 296 ] During that period, Lex began to shows signs of recovering memories of his old life [ 297 ] , so Superman called the police to arrest Lex as a precaution. On a mission with the Justice League, Lois discovered that the Khunds had acquired Supercorp weaponry and informed Superman and Lena about it. Together, they confronted Mercy about it and she revealed that she did indeed sell the weapons to the Khunds as part of the original Lex's plan to remake Superman in his image. However, Lex's memory loss delayed that plan. Outraged at Mercy's betrayal, Superman fired her on the spot, but Mercy used Kryptonite against him and revealed her latest creation: a clone of Lex. [ 296 ]
X-El had been created by Lex as a backup plan in case Superman did not accept to take control of Supercorp but was deemed too dangerous to activate. Since he lacked the original Lex's recent memories, X-El attempted to kill Superman and Lois until they were assisted by the original Lex, who powered up his new warsuit to fight his clone. Superman's Red-K levels increased while X-El's body started to deteriorate and Lex had no choice but to kill X-El. Superman was outraged and called Lex out, but he had another thing to worry about: Lois' powers had seemingly vanished. [ 298 ]
Superman took Lois to the Watchtower, where Mr. Terrific conducted tests on her and concluded that her powers had indeed disappeared. Lois accepted the outcome and decided to resume her old life, even though Superman and Mr. Terrific insisted that they could find a way to restore her powers. As Lois returned to the Daily Planet , Superman went to Supercorp and informed Mercy that she was fired and that he would be shutting down Supercorp. Later, he went to visit Lex at Stryker's to ask him if there were any other contingency plans he should be worried about and Lex denied this and told Superman that he could find a way to help Lois be Superwoman again. Suddenly, Superman experienced another Red Kryptonite-induced rage episode and attacked Lex and when prison guards attempted to immobilize Superman, he attacked them, as well. As Lex attempted to escape, Superman briefly regained control of himself and requested help from the Justice League, only to be confroned by Marilyn Moonlight, who said that Metropolis needed to be saved from Superman himself. [ 299 ]
Superman convinced Marilyn to work together in finding Lex, only to find that he had released Pharm and Graft to cover his own escape. Pharm and Graft attacked Metropolis with a giant robot but Superman destroyed it with the symbol of the Supercorp building and then exposed himself to Marilyn's lunar powers, which cured him of his Red-K infection. During the battle, Superman received a message from Lex, who admitted that he got Superman involved with Marilyn, Pharm and Graft as part of his plan to cure Superman and declared his intentions to leave Metropolis for a while. In Lex's absence, Marilyn rebranded Supercorp back into Lexcorp and became its boss, but said that she would still try to help Superman in a way she could. [ 300 ]
Around that time, an inertron asteroid threatened to hit the Earth and Superman moved in to intercept it, only to discover that the asteroid had a secondary Kryptonite layer. Through sheer willpower, Superman slowed the asteroid's descent until it disintegrated in low orbit, but the pain caused him to fall into a coma. He awakened three months later in the Watchtower's medical bay and the Justice League celebrated his recovery, but Batman informed him that, during Superman's coma, humanity had successfully harvested and proliferated the Kryptonite from the asteroid Superman had stopped and Kryptonite had become a readily available energy source to those who could afford it. According to Batman, Superman should have died after getting exposed to so much Kryptonite, but a mysterious golden light covering his body saved him. [ 301 ]
Batman explained that this new power was some kind of evolution of his solar flare ability and that it activated whenever Superman took too much damage from Kryptonite. This solar aura protected Superman from Kryptonite radiation from 200 seconds, but once that time was up, Superman would lose all his powers and still be vulnerable to Kryptonite, which is why Batman advised him to make every second count. Superman initially tried to keep his solar aura a secret but his usage of it became public during a fight with Knockout and her gang. [ 302 ]
Superman went to Smallville to have a meeting with his friends from the Legion of Super-Heroes, but instead, he was ambushed by a Saturn Girl that had been corrupted by Darkseid. She tried to torture Superman with mental images of his friends and loved ones dying, until he was unexpectedly saved by the Time Trapper, who warned Superman that Darkseid's Legion were a threat to all of reality, and to stop them, Superman would need help from an unexpected ally. The Trapper took Superman to a pocket dimension that was the home of Superboy-Prime . [ 303 ] Superman initially did not want help from the murderous Kryptonian who almost destroyed the multiverse, but Prime assured him that he had changed for the better and they needed to work together to stop Darkseid's Legion. The Kryptonians traveled to the 31st century, hoping to get reinforcements from the heroic Legions, only to find that Darkseid's Legion had already decimated them. In the ruins of the Time Institute, Superman rescued Booster Gold, who had gone missing after trying to explore Earth-Alpha [ 286 ] , but he did not recognize him and Booster explained that Darkseid's Legion had captured him and erased Booster from everybody's memories, including Superman. Darkseid's Legion quickly surrounded by Superman and even Prime seemingly betrayed him to join their ranks. [ 304 ]
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Kryptonian Physiology : Superman's Kryptonian biology is able to store solar energy actively within his bio-cellular matrix as an energy pattern that is linked to his body's electromagnetic field. This process powers most of his electromagnetic capabilities such as flight, heat-vision and other "sight"-based abilities, while also supplementing his physical abilities to immense superhuman levels. [ 60 ] Aside from his incredible power, Superman is integral to the balance of the universe. The Spectre explained that Superman embodies the primal forces of Life and Hope, which push reality outwards to expand. This force is counterbalanced by Constraint, which holds the expansion back, and is embodied by Darkseid . Together, they maintain the balance of the universe. [ 286 ] Solar Radiation Absorption : Due to his Kryptonian biology, Superman's body absorbs solar energy and converts it into power, causing him to pull in 140 gigawatts of solar energy at any given moment. [ 305 ] . Stars of different frequencies give him different abilities. Earth's yellow sun fuels all of his powers, while the wavelength of his home solar system's Red Sun enables his body to function on an identical level of an ordinary human. Every time Superman uses any of his superhuman abilities, his body expends absorbed sunlight. By flying into the sun, Superman is able to recharge his energy and temporarily boost his powers. Radiation Absorption : Superman's solar receptors have allowed him to absorb different types of radiation in certain instances. He has absorbed cosmic energy from Starman , gained from the Totality itself. [ 306 ] This boosted his powers to the point that he felt like he could crack the Earth in half with a footstep, if he wasn't careful. [ 307 ] Superman also displayed the ability to absorb the radiation from an atomic explosion, however this left him severely weak. [ 308 ] Superhuman Strength : Superman possesses near limitless strength, though the exact limits of Superman's strength is unknown. Superman is one of the most physically strongest beings in the multiverse. His immense willpower allows him to push beyond his physical limits when necessary, allowing Superman to exert incredible feats of strength. Brainiac has stated that Superman has the most amount of power in the universe. [ 261 ] He was strong enough to knock out a restrained Barbatos, [ 141 ] with a just a punch. [ 309 ] When Superman fought against Rogol Zaar inside the Phantom Zone , their fight made the realm tremble and shake, under the weight of their battle. [ 310 ] After being supercharged by multiple suns, Superman was able to punch the World Forger hard enough to create a continent-sized hole, and crack a tear in the Sixth Dimension . [ 189 ] Shock Wave Projection : Superman is strong enough to create powerful sonic booms with just the clap of his hands. These sonic claps are powerful enough to be heard across states. [ 311 ] Superhuman Speed : Superman is able to move at incredible speed by sheer force of will. This extends to his perceptions and allows for feats such as catching bullets in mid flight as well as covering vast distances in little or no time. Superman was even fast enough to keep up with Wally West on foot, though he is still not as fast. [ 312 ] He can move so fast that time slows from his perspective, long enough to have an entire conversation in just a few seconds. [ 313 ] Superman is fast enough to essentially be in two places at once, as he was capable of fighting Darkseid and saving the lives of others simultaneously, which perplexed even Darkseid himself. [ 314 ] After being supercharged by multiple suns, Superman was able to move at a speed described as beyond physics and imagination, and far past the speed of light. [ 189 ] After being powered by a White Sun on Warworld , Superman becomes fast enough that he can cross through space-time to travel across several light years in a matter of seconds. [ 315 ] Time Travel : Superman is fast enough to use the Cosmic Treadmill to travel through the timestream , which requires speeds great enough to break the time-barrier. [ 133 ] Under the right conditions, Superman states that he can use his speed to travel through the timestream unaided. [ 316 ] Molecular Acceleration : Superman can vibrate his molecular structure to achieve various effects. [ 317 ] By vibrating fast enough, Superman can enter the "space between spaces", a vibrational frequency that nobody can perceive, thus giving him and General Zod the chance to talk privately. [ 318 ] Phasing : By vibrating his molecules on an atomic level, and by doing so at just the right frequency, Superman can phase through objects such as walls without damaging them. [ 237 ] Intangibility : Superman can vibrate his molecular structure to an intangible state, allowing objects to pass through him, including energy blasts. [ 319 ] Vortex Creations : Superman can use his speed to manipulate airflow for various purposes. He was able to use his flight speed to funnel a toxic chemical out of the atmosphere and into space. [ 131 ] By flying around a group of enemies at super speed, Superman can create a vortex around them to draw away their oxygen and choke them out. [ 320 ] Superhuman Agility : Superman's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily make sharp turns and easily maneuver while flying and moving at superhuman speed. Superhuman Reflexes : Superman possesses reflexes far greater than any normal human being. This allows him to easily react to danger and events, and perceive the world in slow motion. [ 148 ] Superhuman Stamina : Superman is able to maintain continuous strenuous physical action for an indefinite period of time. This is based on his body converting yellow solar radiation directly to energy but is limited by physiological and psychological needs to eat, drink and sleep. Superhuman Senses : All of Superman's senses are enhanced to superhuman levels, allowing him to perceive the world in far greater detail than the average human. [ 148 ] By combining his super-hearing with the sound waves from his sonic-claps, he can simulate a rough form of echolocation. [ 321 ] Super-Vision : Superman's vision processes the entire electromagnetic spectrum as well as allowing vast control over selective perception and focus. This umbrella ability includes the following: Electromagnetic Spectrum Vision : Superman can see well into most of the electromagnetic spectrum. He can see and identify radio and television signals as well as all other broadcast or transmitted frequencies. Using this ability, he can avoid detection by radar or satellite monitoring methods. This also allows him to see the aura generated by living things. Infrared Vision : Superman can see with better acuity in darkness, and to a degree in total darkness. Microscopic Vision : This is the ability to see extremely small objects and images down to the atomic level. Radiation Production : Superman can emit various forms of radiation through his eyes. He once used this ability to emit microwave radiation to fry the electronics in a room. [ 25 ] Telescopic Vision : This is the ability to see something at a great distance, without violating the laws of physics. Though limited, the exact extent of the ability is undetermined. In function, it is similar to the zoom lens on a camera. X-Ray Vision : By focusing his vision, Superman can see through any volume of matter, except lead. He can see things behind a solid, opaque object as if it were not there and can focus this ability to "peel back" layers of an object, allowing hidden image or inner workings to be observed. Superman's enemies have attempted to use lead to hide things from his vision, mistakenly believing that anything with that material is somehow invisible to him. On the contrary, lead's opaqueness to his X-ray vision makes the material easy to spot with a wide-angle scan and allows Superman to narrow his search to those opaque objects. [ 322 ] He can even use intensify his X-Ray vision to the extent that he could use it at a Gamma level to short out a Space Station's electrical engine. [ 323 ] Super-Hearing : Superman's hearing is sensitive enough to hear any sound at any volume or pitch. With skill and concentration, he can block out ambient sounds to focus on a specific source or frequency. Superhuman Taste : Superman's sense of taste is enhanced to levels far greater than any normal human. He is capable of singling out every specific ingredient in food by tasting it. [ 324 ] Accelerated Healing : Superman's bodily tissue can repair itself fast enough to be visibly noticeable, allowing him to heal from injuries at a highly accelerated rate. [ 25 ] The time it takes for him to heal depends on the level of injury. When under direct sunlight, Superman can heal almost instantly. [ 25 ] Toxic Immunity : Superman is resistant to any toxins and diseases due to his superhuman immune system. [ 325 ] Enhanced Mental Process : Superman's mental capacity is enhanced to levels far greater than any normal human, allowing him to take in and process information at an accelerated rate. This allows Superman to read through large amounts of information at super-speed and retain it. [ 54 ] [ 326 ] His mind is able to process information at such speeds that he can perceive femtoseconds and attoseconds. [ 148 ] Flight : Superman is able to manipulate graviton particles to defy the forces of gravity and achieve flight. This ranges from hovering to moving in any posture, in any direction. He is capable of flying at above supersonic and hypersonic speeds. [ 148 ] Heat Vision : Superman can fire beams of intense heat at a target by looking at it. He can vary the heat and area affected. After receiving brief training from Wraith on how to use his heat vision for more combative purposes, Superman learned to rapid fire his heat vision at maximum heat, by blinking at super speed. [ 327 ] Solar Flare : Superman's last resort power that he'd discovered through his heat vision, was the ability to immediately expel all of his stored solar energy in one gigantic burst of explosive force. This Solar Flare uses all the stored energy within his cells at once, allowing for an all-out attack. [ 98 ] He cannot use it more than once or twice however, as it drains him of all his powers until he can recharge his cells with solar energy. Give or take 24 hours, in that expanse of time, he is rendered virtually human and vulnerable. [ 328 ] [ 329 ] [ 324 ] Superman eventually learned to keep his flares smaller and more contained, so that it doesn't take a toll on his powers. [ 99 ] Cyborg stated that this Solar Flare has the effects of an EMP. [ 330 ] Immortality : Superman is unable to die from old-age and will seemingly live forever. Neron has stated that Superman will never die forever, [ 271 ] and Time Trapper will be the only entity in all of creation that lives to the end of time alongside Superman. [ 331 ] Interstellar Travel : Superman is immune to the nature of space and is not inhibited by its lack of gravity. He can travel the reaches of space where no human body could possibly survive without the aid of technology or protection. [ 148 ] Invulnerability : Due to the interaction of his dense molecular structure and supercharged bio-electric aura, Superman is nigh-invulnerable to nearly all physical attacks, including bullets, blades, blunt objects, and explosions. Only beings rivaling his own power, Kryptonite-based weaponry, and magic-based attacks can significantly harm Superman. Energy Resistance : Superman is highly resistant to most energy-based attacks. On separate occasions he has withstood 300,000 volts and 10 gigawatts of electricity running through him. [ 25 ] [ 326 ] He was even able to deflect Darkseid's full-power Omega-Beams off his chest, and was completely unharmed. [ 286 ] Super Shell : After an encounter with an Inertron enlaced kryptonite meteor in Earth's outer orbit, Clark developed a new superpower similar in function to his Super Flare. [ 332 ] Where he temporarily gleams with a bright golden energy that temporarily guards him from harmful K radiation dependent upon his remaining solar energy reserves. [ 333 ] Once it burns through his sun charged metabolics, Kal-El will be rendered powerless until he can fully recharge again. Super-Breath : Superman is able to create hurricane force winds by exhaling air from his lungs. He can also chill the air as it leaves his lungs to freeze targets. [ 334 ] He can also reverse the process to pull large volumes of air or vapor into his lungs. Self-Sustenance : Superman doesn't need to eat or sleep so long as he has enough solar energy (but is still capable of doing so) and doesn't require oxygen to breathe. [ 335 ]
Solar Radiation Absorption : Due to his Kryptonian biology, Superman's body absorbs solar energy and converts it into power, causing him to pull in 140 gigawatts of solar energy at any given moment. [ 305 ] . Stars of different frequencies give him different abilities. Earth's yellow sun fuels all of his powers, while the wavelength of his home solar system's Red Sun enables his body to function on an identical level of an ordinary human. Every time Superman uses any of his superhuman abilities, his body expends absorbed sunlight. By flying into the sun, Superman is able to recharge his energy and temporarily boost his powers. Radiation Absorption : Superman's solar receptors have allowed him to absorb different types of radiation in certain instances. He has absorbed cosmic energy from Starman , gained from the Totality itself. [ 306 ] This boosted his powers to the point that he felt like he could crack the Earth in half with a footstep, if he wasn't careful. [ 307 ] Superman also displayed the ability to absorb the radiation from an atomic explosion, however this left him severely weak. [ 308 ]
Radiation Absorption : Superman's solar receptors have allowed him to absorb different types of radiation in certain instances. He has absorbed cosmic energy from Starman , gained from the Totality itself. [ 306 ] This boosted his powers to the point that he felt like he could crack the Earth in half with a footstep, if he wasn't careful. [ 307 ] Superman also displayed the ability to absorb the radiation from an atomic explosion, however this left him severely weak. [ 308 ]
Superhuman Strength : Superman possesses near limitless strength, though the exact limits of Superman's strength is unknown. Superman is one of the most physically strongest beings in the multiverse. His immense willpower allows him to push beyond his physical limits when necessary, allowing Superman to exert incredible feats of strength. Brainiac has stated that Superman has the most amount of power in the universe. [ 261 ] He was strong enough to knock out a restrained Barbatos, [ 141 ] with a just a punch. [ 309 ] When Superman fought against Rogol Zaar inside the Phantom Zone , their fight made the realm tremble and shake, under the weight of their battle. [ 310 ] After being supercharged by multiple suns, Superman was able to punch the World Forger hard enough to create a continent-sized hole, and crack a tear in the Sixth Dimension . [ 189 ] Shock Wave Projection : Superman is strong enough to create powerful sonic booms with just the clap of his hands. These sonic claps are powerful enough to be heard across states. [ 311 ]
Shock Wave Projection : Superman is strong enough to create powerful sonic booms with just the clap of his hands. These sonic claps are powerful enough to be heard across states. [ 311 ]
Superhuman Speed : Superman is able to move at incredible speed by sheer force of will. This extends to his perceptions and allows for feats such as catching bullets in mid flight as well as covering vast distances in little or no time. Superman was even fast enough to keep up with Wally West on foot, though he is still not as fast. [ 312 ] He can move so fast that time slows from his perspective, long enough to have an entire conversation in just a few seconds. [ 313 ] Superman is fast enough to essentially be in two places at once, as he was capable of fighting Darkseid and saving the lives of others simultaneously, which perplexed even Darkseid himself. [ 314 ] After being supercharged by multiple suns, Superman was able to move at a speed described as beyond physics and imagination, and far past the speed of light. [ 189 ] After being powered by a White Sun on Warworld , Superman becomes fast enough that he can cross through space-time to travel across several light years in a matter of seconds. [ 315 ] Time Travel : Superman is fast enough to use the Cosmic Treadmill to travel through the timestream , which requires speeds great enough to break the time-barrier. [ 133 ] Under the right conditions, Superman states that he can use his speed to travel through the timestream unaided. [ 316 ] Molecular Acceleration : Superman can vibrate his molecular structure to achieve various effects. [ 317 ] By vibrating fast enough, Superman can enter the "space between spaces", a vibrational frequency that nobody can perceive, thus giving him and General Zod the chance to talk privately. [ 318 ] Phasing : By vibrating his molecules on an atomic level, and by doing so at just the right frequency, Superman can phase through objects such as walls without damaging them. [ 237 ] Intangibility : Superman can vibrate his molecular structure to an intangible state, allowing objects to pass through him, including energy blasts. [ 319 ] Vortex Creations : Superman can use his speed to manipulate airflow for various purposes. He was able to use his flight speed to funnel a toxic chemical out of the atmosphere and into space. [ 131 ] By flying around a group of enemies at super speed, Superman can create a vortex around them to draw away their oxygen and choke them out. [ 320 ]
Time Travel : Superman is fast enough to use the Cosmic Treadmill to travel through the timestream , which requires speeds great enough to break the time-barrier. [ 133 ] Under the right conditions, Superman states that he can use his speed to travel through the timestream unaided. [ 316 ]
Molecular Acceleration : Superman can vibrate his molecular structure to achieve various effects. [ 317 ] By vibrating fast enough, Superman can enter the "space between spaces", a vibrational frequency that nobody can perceive, thus giving him and General Zod the chance to talk privately. [ 318 ] Phasing : By vibrating his molecules on an atomic level, and by doing so at just the right frequency, Superman can phase through objects such as walls without damaging them. [ 237 ] Intangibility : Superman can vibrate his molecular structure to an intangible state, allowing objects to pass through him, including energy blasts. [ 319 ]
Phasing : By vibrating his molecules on an atomic level, and by doing so at just the right frequency, Superman can phase through objects such as walls without damaging them. [ 237 ]
Intangibility : Superman can vibrate his molecular structure to an intangible state, allowing objects to pass through him, including energy blasts. [ 319 ]
Vortex Creations : Superman can use his speed to manipulate airflow for various purposes. He was able to use his flight speed to funnel a toxic chemical out of the atmosphere and into space. [ 131 ] By flying around a group of enemies at super speed, Superman can create a vortex around them to draw away their oxygen and choke them out. [ 320 ]
Superhuman Agility : Superman's agility, balance, and bodily coordination are enhanced to superhuman levels. This allows him to easily make sharp turns and easily maneuver while flying and moving at superhuman speed.
Superhuman Reflexes : Superman possesses reflexes far greater than any normal human being. This allows him to easily react to danger and events, and perceive the world in slow motion. [ 148 ]
Superhuman Stamina : Superman is able to maintain continuous strenuous physical action for an indefinite period of time. This is based on his body converting yellow solar radiation directly to energy but is limited by physiological and psychological needs to eat, drink and sleep.
Superhuman Senses : All of Superman's senses are enhanced to superhuman levels, allowing him to perceive the world in far greater detail than the average human. [ 148 ] By combining his super-hearing with the sound waves from his sonic-claps, he can simulate a rough form of echolocation. [ 321 ] Super-Vision : Superman's vision processes the entire electromagnetic spectrum as well as allowing vast control over selective perception and focus. This umbrella ability includes the following: Electromagnetic Spectrum Vision : Superman can see well into most of the electromagnetic spectrum. He can see and identify radio and television signals as well as all other broadcast or transmitted frequencies. Using this ability, he can avoid detection by radar or satellite monitoring methods. This also allows him to see the aura generated by living things. Infrared Vision : Superman can see with better acuity in darkness, and to a degree in total darkness. Microscopic Vision : This is the ability to see extremely small objects and images down to the atomic level. Radiation Production : Superman can emit various forms of radiation through his eyes. He once used this ability to emit microwave radiation to fry the electronics in a room. [ 25 ] Telescopic Vision : This is the ability to see something at a great distance, without violating the laws of physics. Though limited, the exact extent of the ability is undetermined. In function, it is similar to the zoom lens on a camera. X-Ray Vision : By focusing his vision, Superman can see through any volume of matter, except lead. He can see things behind a solid, opaque object as if it were not there and can focus this ability to "peel back" layers of an object, allowing hidden image or inner workings to be observed. Superman's enemies have attempted to use lead to hide things from his vision, mistakenly believing that anything with that material is somehow invisible to him. On the contrary, lead's opaqueness to his X-ray vision makes the material easy to spot with a wide-angle scan and allows Superman to narrow his search to those opaque objects. [ 322 ] He can even use intensify his X-Ray vision to the extent that he could use it at a Gamma level to short out a Space Station's electrical engine. [ 323 ] Super-Hearing : Superman's hearing is sensitive enough to hear any sound at any volume or pitch. With skill and concentration, he can block out ambient sounds to focus on a specific source or frequency. Superhuman Taste : Superman's sense of taste is enhanced to levels far greater than any normal human. He is capable of singling out every specific ingredient in food by tasting it. [ 324 ]
Super-Vision : Superman's vision processes the entire electromagnetic spectrum as well as allowing vast control over selective perception and focus. This umbrella ability includes the following: Electromagnetic Spectrum Vision : Superman can see well into most of the electromagnetic spectrum. He can see and identify radio and television signals as well as all other broadcast or transmitted frequencies. Using this ability, he can avoid detection by radar or satellite monitoring methods. This also allows him to see the aura generated by living things. Infrared Vision : Superman can see with better acuity in darkness, and to a degree in total darkness. Microscopic Vision : This is the ability to see extremely small objects and images down to the atomic level. Radiation Production : Superman can emit various forms of radiation through his eyes. He once used this ability to emit microwave radiation to fry the electronics in a room. [ 25 ] Telescopic Vision : This is the ability to see something at a great distance, without violating the laws of physics. Though limited, the exact extent of the ability is undetermined. In function, it is similar to the zoom lens on a camera. X-Ray Vision : By focusing his vision, Superman can see through any volume of matter, except lead. He can see things behind a solid, opaque object as if it were not there and can focus this ability to "peel back" layers of an object, allowing hidden image or inner workings to be observed. Superman's enemies have attempted to use lead to hide things from his vision, mistakenly believing that anything with that material is somehow invisible to him. On the contrary, lead's opaqueness to his X-ray vision makes the material easy to spot with a wide-angle scan and allows Superman to narrow his search to those opaque objects. [ 322 ] He can even use intensify his X-Ray vision to the extent that he could use it at a Gamma level to short out a Space Station's electrical engine. [ 323 ]
Electromagnetic Spectrum Vision : Superman can see well into most of the electromagnetic spectrum. He can see and identify radio and television signals as well as all other broadcast or transmitted frequencies. Using this ability, he can avoid detection by radar or satellite monitoring methods. This also allows him to see the aura generated by living things.
Infrared Vision : Superman can see with better acuity in darkness, and to a degree in total darkness.
Microscopic Vision : This is the ability to see extremely small objects and images down to the atomic level.
Radiation Production : Superman can emit various forms of radiation through his eyes. He once used this ability to emit microwave radiation to fry the electronics in a room. [ 25 ]
Telescopic Vision : This is the ability to see something at a great distance, without violating the laws of physics. Though limited, the exact extent of the ability is undetermined. In function, it is similar to the zoom lens on a camera.
X-Ray Vision : By focusing his vision, Superman can see through any volume of matter, except lead. He can see things behind a solid, opaque object as if it were not there and can focus this ability to "peel back" layers of an object, allowing hidden image or inner workings to be observed. Superman's enemies have attempted to use lead to hide things from his vision, mistakenly believing that anything with that material is somehow invisible to him. On the contrary, lead's opaqueness to his X-ray vision makes the material easy to spot with a wide-angle scan and allows Superman to narrow his search to those opaque objects. [ 322 ] He can even use intensify his X-Ray vision to the extent that he could use it at a Gamma level to short out a Space Station's electrical engine. [ 323 ]
Super-Hearing : Superman's hearing is sensitive enough to hear any sound at any volume or pitch. With skill and concentration, he can block out ambient sounds to focus on a specific source or frequency.
Superhuman Taste : Superman's sense of taste is enhanced to levels far greater than any normal human. He is capable of singling out every specific ingredient in food by tasting it. [ 324 ]
Accelerated Healing : Superman's bodily tissue can repair itself fast enough to be visibly noticeable, allowing him to heal from injuries at a highly accelerated rate. [ 25 ] The time it takes for him to heal depends on the level of injury. When under direct sunlight, Superman can heal almost instantly. [ 25 ] Toxic Immunity : Superman is resistant to any toxins and diseases due to his superhuman immune system. [ 325 ]
Toxic Immunity : Superman is resistant to any toxins and diseases due to his superhuman immune system. [ 325 ]
Enhanced Mental Process : Superman's mental capacity is enhanced to levels far greater than any normal human, allowing him to take in and process information at an accelerated rate. This allows Superman to read through large amounts of information at super-speed and retain it. [ 54 ] [ 326 ] His mind is able to process information at such speeds that he can perceive femtoseconds and attoseconds. [ 148 ]
Flight : Superman is able to manipulate graviton particles to defy the forces of gravity and achieve flight. This ranges from hovering to moving in any posture, in any direction. He is capable of flying at above supersonic and hypersonic speeds. [ 148 ]
Heat Vision : Superman can fire beams of intense heat at a target by looking at it. He can vary the heat and area affected. After receiving brief training from Wraith on how to use his heat vision for more combative purposes, Superman learned to rapid fire his heat vision at maximum heat, by blinking at super speed. [ 327 ] Solar Flare : Superman's last resort power that he'd discovered through his heat vision, was the ability to immediately expel all of his stored solar energy in one gigantic burst of explosive force. This Solar Flare uses all the stored energy within his cells at once, allowing for an all-out attack. [ 98 ] He cannot use it more than once or twice however, as it drains him of all his powers until he can recharge his cells with solar energy. Give or take 24 hours, in that expanse of time, he is rendered virtually human and vulnerable. [ 328 ] [ 329 ] [ 324 ] Superman eventually learned to keep his flares smaller and more contained, so that it doesn't take a toll on his powers. [ 99 ] Cyborg stated that this Solar Flare has the effects of an EMP. [ 330 ]
Solar Flare : Superman's last resort power that he'd discovered through his heat vision, was the ability to immediately expel all of his stored solar energy in one gigantic burst of explosive force. This Solar Flare uses all the stored energy within his cells at once, allowing for an all-out attack. [ 98 ] He cannot use it more than once or twice however, as it drains him of all his powers until he can recharge his cells with solar energy. Give or take 24 hours, in that expanse of time, he is rendered virtually human and vulnerable. [ 328 ] [ 329 ] [ 324 ] Superman eventually learned to keep his flares smaller and more contained, so that it doesn't take a toll on his powers. [ 99 ] Cyborg stated that this Solar Flare has the effects of an EMP. [ 330 ]
Immortality : Superman is unable to die from old-age and will seemingly live forever. Neron has stated that Superman will never die forever, [ 271 ] and Time Trapper will be the only entity in all of creation that lives to the end of time alongside Superman. [ 331 ]
Interstellar Travel : Superman is immune to the nature of space and is not inhibited by its lack of gravity. He can travel the reaches of space where no human body could possibly survive without the aid of technology or protection. [ 148 ]
Invulnerability : Due to the interaction of his dense molecular structure and supercharged bio-electric aura, Superman is nigh-invulnerable to nearly all physical attacks, including bullets, blades, blunt objects, and explosions. Only beings rivaling his own power, Kryptonite-based weaponry, and magic-based attacks can significantly harm Superman. Energy Resistance : Superman is highly resistant to most energy-based attacks. On separate occasions he has withstood 300,000 volts and 10 gigawatts of electricity running through him. [ 25 ] [ 326 ] He was even able to deflect Darkseid's full-power Omega-Beams off his chest, and was completely unharmed. [ 286 ] Super Shell : After an encounter with an Inertron enlaced kryptonite meteor in Earth's outer orbit, Clark developed a new superpower similar in function to his Super Flare. [ 332 ] Where he temporarily gleams with a bright golden energy that temporarily guards him from harmful K radiation dependent upon his remaining solar energy reserves. [ 333 ] Once it burns through his sun charged metabolics, Kal-El will be rendered powerless until he can fully recharge again.
Energy Resistance : Superman is highly resistant to most energy-based attacks. On separate occasions he has withstood 300,000 volts and 10 gigawatts of electricity running through him. [ 25 ] [ 326 ] He was even able to deflect Darkseid's full-power Omega-Beams off his chest, and was completely unharmed. [ 286 ] Super Shell : After an encounter with an Inertron enlaced kryptonite meteor in Earth's outer orbit, Clark developed a new superpower similar in function to his Super Flare. [ 332 ] Where he temporarily gleams with a bright golden energy that temporarily guards him from harmful K radiation dependent upon his remaining solar energy reserves. [ 333 ] Once it burns through his sun charged metabolics, Kal-El will be rendered powerless until he can fully recharge again.
Super Shell : After an encounter with an Inertron enlaced kryptonite meteor in Earth's outer orbit, Clark developed a new superpower similar in function to his Super Flare. [ 332 ] Where he temporarily gleams with a bright golden energy that temporarily guards him from harmful K radiation dependent upon his remaining solar energy reserves. [ 333 ] Once it burns through his sun charged metabolics, Kal-El will be rendered powerless until he can fully recharge again.
Super-Breath : Superman is able to create hurricane force winds by exhaling air from his lungs. He can also chill the air as it leaves his lungs to freeze targets. [ 334 ] He can also reverse the process to pull large volumes of air or vapor into his lungs.
Self-Sustenance : Superman doesn't need to eat or sleep so long as he has enough solar energy (but is still capable of doing so) and doesn't require oxygen to breathe. [ 335 ]
White Sun Enhancement : After being exposed to Warworld 's Genesis -powered "White" Sun, Superman's existing powers were greatly enhanced and granted new abilities, making him strong enough to fight two New Gods simultaneously. [ 319 ] . After the White Sun exposure, Superman claimed that concepts like weight, distance, temperature and even space-time have largely lost their meaning for him. [ 234 ] Tactile Telekinesis : After White Sun exposure, Superman learned to extend his bio-electric aura to freeze Lex Luthor's Warsuit with a thought and cause it to break apart with a touch. [ 234 ] Teleportation : After White Sun exposure, Superman gained the ability to instantaneously travel across interstellar distances by creating rifts in space-time. When teleported away by Lex Luthor, Superman was able to quickly travel back to Lex though a rift in space. [ 234 ]
Tactile Telekinesis : After White Sun exposure, Superman learned to extend his bio-electric aura to freeze Lex Luthor's Warsuit with a thought and cause it to break apart with a touch. [ 234 ]
Teleportation : After White Sun exposure, Superman gained the ability to instantaneously travel across interstellar distances by creating rifts in space-time. When teleported away by Lex Luthor, Superman was able to quickly travel back to Lex though a rift in space. [ 234 ]
Genesis Enhancement : When exposed to the powerful, radioactive mineral called Genesis , Superman's powers are temporarily enhanced, allowing him to perform new abilities. Genesis is the crystalized blood of an Old God , making it highly mutagenetic. Due to this, Superman cannot absorb large amounts of the energy, unless the mutative radiation is filtered out. [ 238 ] Energy Construct Creation : When supercharged by Genesis, Superman can expand his bio-electric aura to surround himself in a giant energy construct of himself. [ 238 ] Kryptonite Immunity : When supercharged by Genesis, Superman can greatly resist the effects of Kryptonite. [ 238 ]
Energy Construct Creation : When supercharged by Genesis, Superman can expand his bio-electric aura to surround himself in a giant energy construct of himself. [ 238 ]
Kryptonite Immunity : When supercharged by Genesis, Superman can greatly resist the effects of Kryptonite. [ 238 ]
Darkness Manipulation : For a brief time Kal-El was able to get his hands on the supernatural darkness wielded by Wrath putting it to impressive use while withholding it. [ 336 ] Empathy Matter Absorption Exorcism Power Augmentation Telepathy Teleportation Dimensional Travel
Empathy
Matter Absorption Exorcism
Exorcism
Power Augmentation
Telepathy
Teleportation Dimensional Travel
Dimensional Travel
Altered Physiology : Due to Savage altering his cellular matrix through foreign radiation, Kal-El was rendered incapable of properly processing yellow sunlight halving his abilities. [ 101 ] Eventually it was discovered that due to the way his genes mutated, he could then be empowered through Kryptonite to burn off his poisoned biophysical essence and simulate his old powers. Kryptonite Radiation Absorption : Superman's Kryptonite charged cells could simulate his old powers but with differences and lethal side effects, using Kryptonite as chemotherapy was killing off his healthy cells as well as the deviant with prolonged exposure. [ 104 ] Flight Invulnerability Kryptonite Vision Modulation Wave Sight : He could pick up various transmission frequencies of EM Field. Kinetic Field : Every blow Superman delivered has an explosive concussion effect, shattering objects on impact. Superhuman Strength Superhuman Speed
Kryptonite Radiation Absorption : Superman's Kryptonite charged cells could simulate his old powers but with differences and lethal side effects, using Kryptonite as chemotherapy was killing off his healthy cells as well as the deviant with prolonged exposure. [ 104 ] Flight Invulnerability Kryptonite Vision Modulation Wave Sight : He could pick up various transmission frequencies of EM Field. Kinetic Field : Every blow Superman delivered has an explosive concussion effect, shattering objects on impact. Superhuman Strength Superhuman Speed
Flight
Invulnerability
Kryptonite Vision
Modulation Wave Sight : He could pick up various transmission frequencies of EM Field.
Kinetic Field : Every blow Superman delivered has an explosive concussion effect, shattering objects on impact.
Superhuman Strength
Superhuman Speed
Parallax Unison : For a brief amount of time, Clark was fused to the fear entity known as Parallax. With it he had all the power of the yellow entity combined with those of his own, making Superman that much stronger than before. [ 337 ]
Abilities
Genius Level Intellect : Superman has shown incredible intelligence and computational abilities; his mind works sharply and with extreme speed relative to earth-humans. Superman's analytical powers enable him to read information directly from machines With careful usage of his heat vision, he can even reprogram machines. [ citation needed ]
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Advanced) : Superman is an excellent hand-to-hand fighter, utilizing a fighting style that directly complements his superpowers. Superman's combat versatility allows him to adapt to almost any foe and beat them. He was trained by Wioska, a former combat instructor of Apokolips , [ 338 ] Wonder Woman in Amazonian combat, [ 339 ] [ 340 ] and was taught by Kryl-Ux how to fight like a Warworld gladiator [ 341 ] . He even learned some advanced martial arts techniques from Batman. [ 342 ] [ 60 ] [ 343 ] Batman even stated that Clark can take care of himself, even without powers. [ 344 ] In weakened state, Kal got the upper hand on both Cyborg Superman and the Eradicator , while suffering from blindness. [ 345 ] Superman has shown capable of fighting blind while weakened on multiple occasions. [ 346 ] [ 347 ] He has fought the likes of Black Adam to a stalemate. [ 348 ] He has impressed the likes of Captain Comet , [ 349 ] Batman , [ 350 ] [ 351 ] Wonder Woman , [ 352 ] Moon , [ 353 ] Pax Galactica , [ 354 ] General Zod , [ 355 ] Grikus the Undefeated, [ 356 ] the Tournament Judge of Warworld, [ 357 ] Wioska, [ 358 ] and Desaad . [ 359 ] Boxing : Superman has been trained his father Johathan Kent in boxing. [ 360 ] [ 361 ] Jiu-Jitsu [ 60 ] Wrestling [ 362 ]
Boxing : Superman has been trained his father Johathan Kent in boxing. [ 360 ] [ 361 ]
Jiu-Jitsu [ 60 ]
Wrestling [ 362 ]
Indomitable Will : Superman has shown to have a powerful spirit, free of corruption and temptation. Having been raised by a kindly Kansas farmer and his wife, he was taught to protect life and help others. He is very optimistic and never gives up, even when things look bad. Superman has learned how to place mental inhibitors on his own power so that he doesn't accidentally "flex and cause the tectonic plates to shift." To him, they are the barriers that allow him to feel human enough to live a healthy life, and he only ever releases one of them when fighting a particularly powerful opponent or performing a difficult task.
Intimidation
Investigation : Both as a superhero and as a journalist, Superman is an expert at gathering evidence from all kinds of sources. [ 363 ]
Journalism : Clark is one of the best reporters on the Daily Planet , rivaled only by his wife Lois Lane. He gained a Pulitzer Prize at least in one occasion.
Leadership : Superman has proven many times over his ability to command respect and inspire others with his charisma, ardor and idealism. He often serves as the primus inter pares of the Justice League.
Acrobatics [ 364 ] [ 365 ] [ 366 ]
Meditation [ 367 ] [ 368 ]
Multilingualism : Superman speaks Mandarin Chinese. [ 126 ]
Weaponry [ 369 ] [ 370 ] Stick Fighting [ 371 ] [ 372 ] Swordsmanship [ 373 ] [ 374 ] [ 375 ]
Stick Fighting [ 371 ] [ 372 ]
Swordsmanship [ 373 ] [ 374 ] [ 375 ]
Weaknesses
Kryptonian Physiology : Under the effects of a "yellow" sun, Superman possesses the same potential weaknesses as an average Kryptonian. These include: Vulnerability to Kryptonite Vulnerability to Magic
Vulnerability to Kryptonite
Vulnerability to Magic
Solar Energy Dependency : Kryptonian abilities will eventually weaken without replenishing their energy reserves with normal (yellow) sun radiation. When exposed to the same red solar radiation as Krypton's red sun Rao, it causes Kryptonians to lose their powers within a large amount of exposure until exposure to yellow sunlight reverses this effect. When exposed to orange solar radiation from a different galaxy, Superman's strength and abilities will drastically diminished, eventually weakening him. The radiation also affects his intellectual capacity and reduces his ability to think. [ 376 ]
Sensory Overload : Superman's superhumanly acute senses can be overtaxed to the point of pain when encountered by extreme external stimuli such as hypersonics (hearing), balance, and sight (flashbang).
Radiation Poisoning : (Formerly) Superman was exposed to deadly radiation during his encounter with the aliens from the Breach, causing him to rapidly age. He slowed the progression of his condition via regular infusions of rejuvanating magic from The Enchantress , but this was undone by a sorceress working for Mongul. [ 215 ] He was eventually cured by Genesis. [ 377 ] Power Limitation : (Formerly) Superman's sickness caused his powers to fade and weaken. While still significantly stronger than a human, he was less powerful than an average healthy Kryptonian until his radiation poisoning was cured. [ 378 ]
Power Limitation : (Formerly) Superman's sickness caused his powers to fade and weaken. While still significantly stronger than a human, he was less powerful than an average healthy Kryptonian until his radiation poisoning was cured. [ 378 ]
Other Characteristics
Emotional Instability : (Formerly) Superman was exposed to synthetic Red Kryptonite , which unlike genuine Red Kryptonite did not wear off after twenty-four hours. As a result of the Kryptonite, Superman became prone to violent rages when overstressed. In this state he lost all self-control and could potentially kill someone. [ 379 ] [ 380 ] [ 381 ] He was eventually cured by Marilyn Moonlight's powers. [ 382 ]
Paraphernalia
Weapons
Yellow Lantern Ring (Formerly) : While a part of the Sinestro Corps, Superman earned a ring for his ability to inspire great fear in others. [ 383 ]
Notes
Superman was created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster , first appearing  in Action Comics #1 . However, Superman first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Flashpoint (Volume 2) #5 by Geoff Johns and Andy Kubert .
Doctor Manhattan discovered that Superman is a pivotal constant in the universe. Despite changes to timeline, the Metaverse consistently preserves Superman's existence and core history by expanding itself, creating new realities to preserve every era of Superman, emphasizing his role as a source of hope that anchors reality and inspiring heroism across all realities. [ 19 ]
Trivia
Kal-El literally translates to " Star Child " from Kryptonese . [ citation needed ]
Clark considers Bruce Wayne to be his best friend. [ 20 ] He also believes that Batman is a better man than him. [ 384 ] Batman himself considers Superman to be his favorite superhero. [ 385 ]
Clark is at least 36 years old. [ 386 ]
Superman has been an active crime-fighter for at least two decades. [ 387 ] [ 18 ]
Clark is a fan of Clint Eastwood . [ 388 ]
Clark considers Dick Grayson to be his favorite Robin. [ 389 ]
Clark crash-landed on Earth on June 18. He celebrates this day as his birthday since that was the day his parents found him as an infant. [ 13 ]
Khalid Nassour served as Superman's therapist for a time after outing his secret identity. [ 390 ] [ 391 ]
As a teenager, Clark briefly had a crush on Saturn Girl of the Legion of Super-Heroes, when he was a member under the name of Superboy. [ 392 ]
Every Sunday in Smalville, Clark and his Father used to sit on the couch and watch a classic Western together. [ 250 ]
Recommended Reading
Superman (Volume  3)
Action Comics (Volume  2)
Justice League (Volume  2)
Superman (Volume  4)
Action Comics (Volume  1)
Justice League (Volume  3)
Justice League (Volume  4)
Superman (Volume  5)
Batman/Superman: World's Finest (Volume  1)
Superman: Kal-El Returns Special #1
Superman (Volume  6)
Related
1,732 Appearances of Superman (Clark Kent)
2,135 Images featuring Superman (Clark Kent)
229 Quotations by or about Superman (Clark Kent)
Character Gallery: Superman (Clark Kent)
Footnotes
↑ Action Comics #1009
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #24
↑ Action Comics #1040
↑ Action Comics #1061
↑ 5.0 5.1 Nightwing (Volume 4) #128
↑ World of Krypton (Volume 3) #6
↑ Superman Red and Blue #1
↑ Action Comics 2022 Annual #1
↑ Action Comics #977
↑ 10.00 10.01 10.02 10.03 10.04 10.05 10.06 10.07 10.08 10.09 New History of the DC Universe #2
↑ Superman Red and Blue #5
↑ Superman Red and Blue #4
↑ 13.0 13.1 Action Comics #1087
↑ 14.0 14.1 Action Comics #1088
↑ Action Comics #1089
↑ Justice Society of America (Volume 4) #11
↑ DC All In Special #1
↑ 18.0 18.1 18.2 Summer of Superman Special #1
↑ 19.0 19.1 Doomsday Clock #12
↑ 20.0 20.1 Batman/Superman #3
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #0
↑ Batman/Superman #1
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #25
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #1
↑ 25.0 25.1 25.2 25.3 25.4 Action Comics (Volume 2) #2
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #7
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #8
↑ Superman and the Authority #4
↑ Superman and the Authority #1
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #8
↑ 31.0 31.1 Batman/Superman: World's Finest #1
↑ Nightwing (Volume 4) #129
↑ FCBD Dark Crisis Special Edition #0
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #2
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #3
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #4
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #5
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #6
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #7
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #10
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #52
↑ The Death of Superman 30th Anniversary Special #1
↑ Young Justice (Volume 3) #15
↑ Action Comics #978
↑ Action Comics #978
↑ 47.0 47.1 Action Comics #976
↑ Convergence: Superman #2
↑ Superman and the Authority #1
↑ Superman and the Authority #4
↑ Superman and the Authority #1
↑ Young Justice (Volume 3) #3
↑ Superman: Son of Kal-El 2021 Annual #1
↑ 54.0 54.1 Action Comics (Volume 2) #12
↑ 55.0 55.1 Action Comics (Volume 2) #15
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #18
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #1
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #15 - 17
↑ Superman Unchained #3
↑ 60.0 60.1 60.2 60.3 Superman Unchained #8
↑ Superman Unchained #9
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #18
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #20
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #22
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #23
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #24
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #24
↑ Action Comics Annual (Volume 2) #2
↑ Superboy (Volume 6) #25
↑ Supergirl (Volume 6) #25
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #25
↑ Trinity of Sin: Pandora #1
↑ Trinity War
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #22
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #6
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #23
↑ Forever Evil #7
↑ Superman: Doomed #1
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #31
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #8
↑ Batman/Superman #11
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #31
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #32
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #9
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #33
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #10
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman Annual #1
↑ Action Comics Annual (Volume 2) #3
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #11
↑ Superman: Doomed #2
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #35
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #32
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #33
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #34
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #35
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #36
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #37
↑ 98.0 98.1 Superman (Volume 3) #38
↑ 99.0 99.1 Superman (Volume 3) #41
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #42
↑ 101.0 101.1 101.2 Superman (Volume 3) #43
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #44
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #26
↑ 104.0 104.1 Superman (Volume 3) #49
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #50
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #27
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #50
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #41
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #42
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #43
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #44
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #45
↑ Justice League: The Darkseid War: Superman #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #47
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #48
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #49
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #50
↑ Batman/Superman #31
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #51
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #29
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #52
↑ Steelworks #2
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #19
↑ Action Comics #979
↑ Action Comics #982
↑ 126.0 126.1 Action Comics #983
↑ Action Comics #984
↑ Action Comics #987
↑ Action Comics #988
↑ Action Comics #989
↑ 131.0 131.1 Action Comics #990
↑ Action Comics #991
↑ 133.0 133.1 Action Comics #992
↑ Action Comics #993
↑ Action Comics #994
↑ Action Comics #995 - 996
↑ Action Comics #998
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #1
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #2
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #3
↑ 141.0 141.1 Dark Nights: Metal #4
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #5
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #6
↑ Justice League: No Justice #1
↑ Justice League: No Justice #2
↑ Justice League: No Justice #3
↑ Justice League: No Justice #4
↑ 148.0 148.1 148.2 148.3 148.4 148.5 Action Comics #1000
↑ 149.0 149.1 The Man of Steel (Volume 2) #6
↑ The Man of Steel (Volume 2) #3
↑ The Man of Steel (Volume 2) #5
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #1
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #3
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #4
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #5
↑ 156.0 156.1 Superman (Volume 5) #6
↑ Action Comics #1004
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #7
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #12
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #13
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #14
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #15
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #17
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #18
↑ Superman: Heroes #1
↑ Superman: Villains #1
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #19
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #21
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #22
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #23
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #24
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #28
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #2
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #4
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #7
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #10
↑ Justice_League/Aquaman:_Drowned_Earth_ (Volume _1_1) #
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #11
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #12
↑ Aquaman/Justice League: Drowned Earth #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #8
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #15
↑ Justice League Annual (Volume 4) #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #19
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #20
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #21
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #23
↑ 189.0 189.1 189.2 Justice League (Volume 4) #25
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #26
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #27
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #28
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #30
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #31
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #32
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #33
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #34
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #35
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #36
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #37
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #39
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal Guidebook #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #3
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal Trinity Crisis #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #4
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #5
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal The Last Stories of the DC Universe #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #6
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal The Last 52: War of the Multiverses #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #7
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #29
↑ Action Comics #1029
↑ Superman and the Authority #1
↑ 215.0 215.1 215.2 Action Comics #1036
↑ Action Comics #1032
↑ Action Comics #1035
↑ 218.0 218.1 Batman/Superman Authority Special #1
↑ Action Comics #1039
↑ 220.0 220.1 Action Comics #1040
↑ Action Comics #1042
↑ Action Comics #1045
↑ Action Comics #1046
↑ 224.0 224.1 Superman: Warworld Apocalypse #1
↑ Action Comics #1047
↑ Action Comics #1048
↑ Action Comics #1049
↑ Superman: Kal-El Returns Special #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #75
↑ Dark Crisis: Worlds Without a Justice League - Superman #1
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #5
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #6
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #7
↑ 234.0 234.1 234.2 234.3 Action Comics #1050
↑ Action Comics #1051
↑ Action Comics #1052
↑ 237.0 237.1 Action Comics #1053
↑ 238.0 238.1 238.2 238.3 Action Comics #1054
↑ Action Comics #1055
↑ Action Comics #1056
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #1
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #2
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #3
↑ 244.0 244.1 Superman (Volume 6) #4
↑ 245.0 245.1 Superman (Volume 6) #5
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #6
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #7
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #8
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #9
↑ 250.0 250.1 Superman (Volume 6) #10
↑ 251.0 251.1 Superman (Volume 6) #11
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #12
↑ Action Comics #1058
↑ Action Comics #1058
↑ Action Comics #1059
↑ Action Comics #1060
↑ Action Comics 2023 Annual #1
↑ Action Comics #1061
↑ Action Comics #1062
↑ Action Comics #1063
↑ 261.0 261.1 Action Comics #1064
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #13
↑ Action Comics #1065
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #14
↑ Action Comics #1066
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #15
↑ Absolute Power #1
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #16
↑ Absolute Power #2
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #17
↑ 271.0 271.1 Superman (Volume 6) #18
↑ Absolute Power #3
↑ 273.0 273.1 Absolute Power #4
↑ Action Comics #1070
↑ Action Comics #1071
↑ Action Comics #1072
↑ Action Comics #1073
↑ Action Comics #1074
↑ Action Comics #1075
↑ Action Comics #1076
↑ Action Comics #1077
↑ Action Comics #1078
↑ Action Comics #1079
↑ Action Comics #1080
↑ Action Comics #1080
↑ 286.0 286.1 286.2 286.3 DC All In Special #1
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #1
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #6
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #7
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #8
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #19
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #20
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #21
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #22
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #23
↑ 296.0 296.1 Superman (Volume 6) #24
↑ Superman: Lex Luthor Special #1
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #25
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #26
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #27
↑ Superman Unlimited #1
↑ Superman Unlimited #2
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #28
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #29
↑ Superman Unchained #2
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #15
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #15
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #7
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal Trinity Crisis #1
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #6
↑ Justice League/Aquaman: Drowned Earth #1
↑ Titans (Volume 3) #7
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #11
↑ Superman: Man of Tomorrow #16
↑ Action Comics #1050
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #39
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #1
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #12
↑ 319.0 319.1 Action Comics #1049
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #33
↑ Action Comics #1071
↑ Action Comics #1024
↑ Superman Unchained #1
↑ 324.0 324.1 Superman (Volume 3) #39
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #20
↑ 326.0 326.1 Action Comics (Volume 2) #14
↑ Superman Unchained #4
↑ Batman/Superman Annual #2
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman Annual #2
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #40
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #19
↑ Superman Unlimited #1
↑ Superman Unlimited #2
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #2
↑ DC Comics Encyclopedia
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #45
↑ Superman (Volume 4) #29 – 30
↑ Superman: Man of Tomorrow #7
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #37
↑ Superman Unchained #8
↑ Action Comics #1039
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #19
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #19
↑ Batman/Superman Annual #2
↑ Action Comics #981
↑ Action Comics #982
↑ Action Comics #983
↑ Justice League: Endless Winter #2
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #11
↑ Batman/Superman Annual #2
↑ Trinity (Volume 2) #17
↑ Trinity (Volume 2) #17
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #25
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #23
↑ Action Comics #983
↑ Superman: Man of Tomorrow #11
↑ Batman/Superman Annual #1
↑ Superman: Man of Tomorrow #7
↑ Action Comics #1049
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #13
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #16
↑ Superman (Volume 3) #47
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #45
↑ Batman/Superman Annual #2
↑ Action Comics #1039
↑ Action Comics #1046
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #23
↑ Action Comics #1063
↑ Action Comics (Volume 2) #23
↑ Superman Unchained #7
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #37
↑ Trinity (Volume 2) #18
↑ Action Comics #1040
↑ Action Comics #1041
↑ Action Comics #1042
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #27
↑ Superman: Warworld Apocalypse #1
↑ Superman and the Authority #2
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #12
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #20
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #21
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #27
↑ Sinestro #18
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #36
↑ Detective Comics #1017
↑ Summer of Superman Special #1
↑ Superman and the Authority #1
↑ Adventures of the Super Sons
↑ Superman: Up in the Sky #6
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #26
↑ Superman (Volume 5) #24
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #28
Superman Family member This character is or was an incarnation of or an ally of Superman , and a member of the Superman Family . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Superman Family members " category.
Daily Planet Staff member This character is or was an employee of the Daily Planet , a daily newspaper based in Metropolis . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Daily Planet Staff members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of The Authority , a team of superheroes initially appearing in WildStorm Comics who declared themselves beyond the government, taking justice into their own hands. This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Authority members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Sinestro Corps , chosen by Sinestro to counteract the Green Lantern Corps and spread terror throughout their sector with a Power Ring . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Sinestro Corps members category."
Legion of Super-Heroes member This character is or was a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes from the 30th / 31st Century , in any one of their various continuities. Including but not limited to, Original Legion , the Reboot Legion , Prime Legion and the Post-Rebirth Legion . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Legion of Super-Heroes members " category.
Black Lantern Corps member This character is or was a member of the Black Lantern Corps . Those who have died may wield the Black Power Ring , symbolizing their lack of both life and emotion. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Black Lantern Corps members category."

Talia al Ghul (Prime Earth)
Talia al Ghul Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Tal-yahe al Ghul Main Alias Talia al Ghul Other Aliases Daughter of the Demon, Leviathan, Mother of Demons, Mother of Nails, Myriad [ 1 ] Relatives Rúh al Ghul (paternal grandmother, deceased), Ra's al Ghul (father), Melisande (mother, deceased), Nyssa Raatko (paternal half-sister), Dusan al Ghul (paternal half-brother), The Help (paternal half-brother), Damian Wayne (son), Mara al Ghul (niece), Respawn (partial clone) Affiliation Department of Extranormal Operations , Leviathan , Totality · Formerly Checkmate , League of Assassins , League of Shadows Base Of Operations Mobile Status Alignment Bad Identity Public Identity Citizenship Egyptian Marital Status Single Occupation Assassin , Queen of Bialya , [ 2 ] Terrorist Characteristics Gender Female Height 5' 8" Weight 120 lbs (54 kg) Eyes Brown Hair Brown Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Dennis O'Neil · Bob Brown First Appearance Batman and Robin Vol 2  #2 ( December, 2011 )
Talia al Ghul
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Talia al Ghul , born as Tal-yahe al Ghul , [ 3 ] is the daughter of the immortal world conqueror Ra's al Ghul . She is often an enemy and love interest of Batman and is the mother of his son Damian Wayne , the fifth Robin . While she frequently allies herself with her father's League of Assassins , Talia was also the leader of the organization known as Leviathan until being ousted by Mark Shaw .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Meeting Jason Todd 1.2 Seducing Batman 1.3 Resurrecting Jason Todd 1.4 Rise and Fall of Leviathan 1.5 Resurrection
1.1 Meeting Jason Todd
1.2 Seducing Batman
1.3 Resurrecting Jason Todd
1.4 Rise and Fall of Leviathan
1.5 Resurrection
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Abilities 2.2 Other Characteristics
2.1 Abilities
2.2 Other Characteristics
3 Notes
4 Trivia
5 Recommended Reading
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Meeting Jason Todd
During the Zero Year in Gotham City , Talia fought through the city's criminal underworld seeking information on the Red Hood Gang for herself. Her inquisition earned her a back alley fight, which Jason Todd witnessed from an overlooking fire-escape. When the young boy entered the fray, Talia told the other thugs to run for their lives, and, assessing Jason's likely age, she held back in her fighting with him, wanting only information. Jason agreed to take her to the meeting place that night, introducing himself as Red Hood #4. Teaching Jason a skill taught to her by Ducra of the All-Caste , and impressed by his skill with it, she still decapitated the incipient new leader of the gang that she had infiltrated the meeting of, stopping the re-assembly of the Red Hood Gang cold. [ 4 ]
Seducing Batman
In her dealings with Bruce Wayne as the Batman grew in prominence, Talia managed to seduce him into what he thought was love, but turned out to be nothing more than an attempt to merge the Wayne and al Ghul bloodlines to produce an heir for the League of Assassins, as the attempt to wed the two had evidently failed. [ 5 ] Upon the birth of her son Damian from an artificial womb, she immediately began a very harsh training regimen to groom him for the League. [ 6 ]
Despite being told by her father that her mother had died in childbirth, Talia had later met her mother Melisandre . The woman had posed as a fortune teller, and told her future with the demon star Algol. Algol is a binary star seen as the eye of the Gorgon in the constellation Perseus . It represents Medusa, a once-beautiful woman scorned and turned into a monster whose gaze could destroy men. Before Melisande was dragged away, she counselled her daughter to hide strength by appearing helpless. The fortune made Talia recall her early loving relationship with Batman. [ 7 ]
Resurrecting Jason Todd
When Jason Todd, at the time Robin , was murdered by the Joker , Talia brought him back to life through the use of a Lazarus Pit . [ 8 ] She thereafter brought him to the Acres of All , where she asked Ducra to teach him to be an assassin, a request to which the mystic reluctantly agreed. [ 9 ]
Rise and Fall of Leviathan
Main article: Batman Incorporated: Leviathan Strikes
Main article: Batman Incorporated Vol 2
Following Batman's return following his "death", Talia built up Leviathan to counter his incipient Batman, Incorporated . To distract Batman, she placed a $500,000,000 bounty on her son. [ 10 ]
Talia al Ghul met with her father to discuss Batman, explaining that Dedalus had advised her to evoke the imagery of terrifying female archetypes, such as Kali Ma , Medusa , and Tiamat . Ra's praised her work, but demanded that she end her war with Batman. Talia explained to Ra's that she offered Batman love and Batman chose war. Defying Ra's, Talia's loyalists take control of the League of Assassins, and her monster the Heretic killed Ubu . Ra's remarked that this was the first time he had been afraid for Batman. [ 7 ]
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Resurrection
Following the resurrection of her son, an unclothed and amnesiac Talia al Ghul found herself near Nanda Parbat , where she killed a group of nomads. [ 11 ]
Powers and Abilities
Abilities
Deception
Leadership
Martial Arts
Seduction
Swordsmanship
Other Characteristics
Amnesia : After her resurrection, Talia apparently lost her memory.
Notes
Talia al Ghul was created by Dennis O'Neil and Bob Brown , first appearing  in Detective Comics #411 . However, Talia al Ghul first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #2 by Peter Tomasi and Patrick Gleason .
Trivia
According to Batman, Talia smelled of jasmine and taif rose [ 12 ]
Talia's considered the worst human on Earth by Maya Ducard . [ 13 ]
Recommended Reading
Red Hood and the Outlaws Vol. 1 (2011-2015) , #2, #20, #25-27
Batman Incorporated Vol. 2 (2012-2013)
Batman and Robin: Robin Rises
Robin: Son of Batman (2015-2016)
The Silencer (2018-2019)
Event Leviathan Superman: Leviathan Rising Special (2019) Event Leviathan (2019-2020) Leviathan Dawn (2020)
Superman: Leviathan Rising Special (2019)
Event Leviathan (2019-2020)
Leviathan Dawn (2020)
Checkmate Vol. 3 (2021-2022)
Robin Vol. 3 (2021-2022)
Shadow War (2022)
Batman vs. Robin (2022-2023)
Detective Comics by Ram V: Gotham Nocturne (Detective Comics Vol. 1 #1062-1089)
Related
178 Appearances of Talia al Ghul (Prime Earth)
68 Images featuring Talia al Ghul (Prime Earth)
18 Quotations by or about Talia al Ghul (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Talia al Ghul (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ Batman: Legends of Gotham #1
↑ Robin: Son of Batman #6
↑ Detective Comics #1081
↑ Red Hood and the Outlaws #25
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #4
↑ Batman and Robin (Volume 2) #0
↑ 7.0 7.1 Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #2
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #5
↑ Red Hood and the Outlaws #2
↑ Batman Incorporated (Volume 2) #1
↑ Robin Rises: Alpha #1
↑ Batman vs. Robin #2
↑ Robin: Son of Batman #11
This character was a member of the top secret government organization Checkmate . This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Checkmate members " and " Government Agents " categories.
D.E.O. member This character is or was a member of the D.E.O. , a government agency dedicated to protecting the general public from extraterrestrial and superhuman threats, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " DEO members " and " Government Agents categories.
League of Assassins member This character is or was a member of the League of Assassins , a international organization of the world's greatest killers, operating both for hire and their own agenda, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " League of Assassins members " category.
Legion of Doom member This character is or was a member of the Legion of Doom , a team of supervillains called together for the purpose of conquering the world and defeating the Super Friends, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Legion of Doom members " category.
Batman Villain(s) This character, team or organization, has been primarily an enemy of the Batman , or the Batman Family as a whole. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Batman Villains ."
Robin Villain(s) This character, team or organization, has been primarily an enemy of any of the young heroes who have been known as Robin. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Robin villains ."

Teen Titans (Prime Earth)
Teen Titans Gallery Official Team Name Teen Titans Team Aliases Titans · New Teen Titans [ 1 ] [ 2 ] · Junior Justice League [ 1 ] Status Defunct Alignment Good Universe Prime Earth Base of Operations New York City ; Formerly San Francisco Affiliations Team Leader(s) Formerly Bunker , Robin (Damian Wayne) , Starfire , Red Robin , Nightwing Former Members Core Members Aqualad (Garth) , Aqualad (Jackson Hyde) , Argent , Bat-Girl , Beast Boy , Blue Beetle , Boy Thunder , Bunker , Cave Boy , Chimera , Crush , Cyborg , Djinn , Dove (Dawn Granger) , Dove (Don Hall) , Golden Eagle , Hawk , Herald , Hot Spot , Impulse , Jakeem Thunder , Jericho , Joker's Daughter , Kid Flash (Bar Torr) , Kid Flash (Wallace West) , Kid Flash (Wally West) , Magenta , Miss Martian , Nightwing , Omen , Pantha , Power Girl , Prysm , Ravager , Raven , Red Arrow , Red Robin , Red Star , Robin (Damian Wayne) , Roundhouse , Skitter , Solstice , Speedy , Starfire , Static , Superboy (Jon Lane Kent) (deceased), Superboy (Kon-El) , Supergirl , Terra , Wonder Girl (Cassie Sandsmark) , Wonder Girl (Donna Troy) Titans Academy Black Adam, Jr. , Bolt , Bratgirl , Brick Pettirosso (deceased), Chupacabra (deceased), Cybruh , Dane , Gorilla Gregg , Joely Webster (deceased), Lebowitz , Mark Radley (deceased), Matt Price , Megabat , Miguel Montez , Primer , Shazam (Billy Batson) , Stitch , Summer Zahid , Totally Tubular , Tress , Whistle Allies Danny the Street , Goliath , Justice League , Legion Lost , Lucia Hyde , Doomed , Outlaws , Rose Wilson , Superboy (Jon Samuel Kent) , Titans , Titans Tomorrow ; Formerly Manchester Black , Ravagers Enemies Amanda Waller , Basilisk , Black Manta , Black Mask , Brainiac , Deathstroke , Etrigan , Grymm , H.I.V.E. , Joker , King Shark , League of Assassins , Loose Cannon , N.E.M.O. , N.O.W.H.E.R.E. , Onomatopoeia , Sons of Trigon , Suicide Squad , Swerve , Formerly Atomic Skull , Algorithm , Diesel , Harvest , Trigon Creators Bob Haney · George Kashdan · Bruno Premiani First appearance Last appearance Teen Titans Vol 4  #4 ( February, 2012 ) Dark Crisis: War Zone #1 ( February, 2023 )
Teen Titans
Official Team Name
Team Aliases
Status
Alignment
Universe
Base of Operations
Affiliations
Team Leader(s)
Former Members
Core Members Aqualad (Garth) , Aqualad (Jackson Hyde) , Argent , Bat-Girl , Beast Boy , Blue Beetle , Boy Thunder , Bunker , Cave Boy , Chimera , Crush , Cyborg , Djinn , Dove (Dawn Granger) , Dove (Don Hall) , Golden Eagle , Hawk , Herald , Hot Spot , Impulse , Jakeem Thunder , Jericho , Joker's Daughter , Kid Flash (Bar Torr) , Kid Flash (Wallace West) , Kid Flash (Wally West) , Magenta , Miss Martian , Nightwing , Omen , Pantha , Power Girl , Prysm , Ravager , Raven , Red Arrow , Red Robin , Red Star , Robin (Damian Wayne) , Roundhouse , Skitter , Solstice , Speedy , Starfire , Static , Superboy (Jon Lane Kent) (deceased), Superboy (Kon-El) , Supergirl , Terra , Wonder Girl (Cassie Sandsmark) , Wonder Girl (Donna Troy) Titans Academy
Allies
Enemies
Creators
The Teen Titans is a team of young heroes initially led by the original Robin . The team was erased from the world's collective memory for a time in an attempt to prevent the rise of a demonic Mister Twister . As such, when he founded his own team, Red Robin thought he was the first to use the name. After being disbanded by Red Robin, a new team led by the fifth Robin was formed.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Founding and Early History 1.1.1 The First Team 1.1.2 Boy Thunder 1.1.3 Further Adventures 1.1.4 World's Finest 1.1.5 New Teen Titans 1.1.6 Later Iterations 1.1.7 Conflict with Mister Twister 1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Tim's New Team 1.2.2 It's Our Right to Fight 1.2.3 The Culling 1.2.4 The Origin of Wonder Girl 1.2.5 Death of the Family 1.2.6 Raven and Trigon 1.2.7 Into the Timestream 1.2.8 Trial of Kid Flash 1.2.9 S.T.A.R. Labs 1.2.10 Return of Superboy 1.2.11 On the Run 1.2.12 Who Is Wonder Girl? 1.2.13 Final Adventures 1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Conflict with Mister Twister 1.3.2 Damian's Team 1.3.3 Demon's Fist Hunt 1.3.4 Lazarus Contract 1.3.5 Dark Nights: Metal: The Resistance 1.3.6 Return of Kid Flash / Super Sons of Tomorrow 1.3.7 Damian's Second Team 1.3.8 The Other 1.3.9 Djinn Wars 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Titans Academy
1.1 Founding and Early History 1.1.1 The First Team 1.1.2 Boy Thunder 1.1.3 Further Adventures 1.1.4 World's Finest 1.1.5 New Teen Titans 1.1.6 Later Iterations 1.1.7 Conflict with Mister Twister
1.1.1 The First Team
1.1.2 Boy Thunder
1.1.3 Further Adventures
1.1.4 World's Finest
1.1.5 New Teen Titans
1.1.6 Later Iterations
1.1.7 Conflict with Mister Twister
1.2 New 52 1.2.1 Tim's New Team 1.2.2 It's Our Right to Fight 1.2.3 The Culling 1.2.4 The Origin of Wonder Girl 1.2.5 Death of the Family 1.2.6 Raven and Trigon 1.2.7 Into the Timestream 1.2.8 Trial of Kid Flash 1.2.9 S.T.A.R. Labs 1.2.10 Return of Superboy 1.2.11 On the Run 1.2.12 Who Is Wonder Girl? 1.2.13 Final Adventures
1.2.1 Tim's New Team
1.2.2 It's Our Right to Fight
1.2.3 The Culling
1.2.4 The Origin of Wonder Girl
1.2.5 Death of the Family
1.2.6 Raven and Trigon
1.2.7 Into the Timestream
1.2.8 Trial of Kid Flash
1.2.9 S.T.A.R. Labs
1.2.10 Return of Superboy
1.2.11 On the Run
1.2.12 Who Is Wonder Girl?
1.2.13 Final Adventures
1.3 Rebirth 1.3.1 Conflict with Mister Twister 1.3.2 Damian's Team 1.3.3 Demon's Fist Hunt 1.3.4 Lazarus Contract 1.3.5 Dark Nights: Metal: The Resistance 1.3.6 Return of Kid Flash / Super Sons of Tomorrow 1.3.7 Damian's Second Team 1.3.8 The Other 1.3.9 Djinn Wars
1.3.1 Conflict with Mister Twister
1.3.2 Damian's Team
1.3.3 Demon's Fist Hunt
1.3.4 Lazarus Contract
1.3.5 Dark Nights: Metal: The Resistance
1.3.6 Return of Kid Flash / Super Sons of Tomorrow
1.3.7 Damian's Second Team
1.3.8 The Other
1.3.9 Djinn Wars
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Titans Academy
1.4.1 Titans Academy
2 Notes
3 Trivia
4 See Also
5 Links and References 5.1 Footnotes
5.1 Footnotes
History
Founding and Early History
The First Team
The original Teen Titans
Founded by Dick Grayson , the original Teen Titans formed many years ago after an adventure in Hatton Corners , consisting of the sidekicks of several of the world's most prominent superheroes.
They were originally made up of Robin (Dick Grayson) , Wonder Girl (Donna Troy) , Aqualad (Garth) , and Kid Flash (Wally West) ; though not a founding member, Speedy joined early after its creation and became a prominent member.
Boy Thunder
The team briefly hosted the interdimensional refugee known as David Sikela , with Speedy giving him the codename 'Boy Thunder', despite David's objections.  Boy Thunder participated in adventures with the Titans for a time, including aiding them in taking down pirates who had taken down an oil tanker.  During the battle, David lost control of his temper (and his powers) after one of the Titans was injured, and he nearly killed one of the pirates. [ 3 ] When Boy Thunder was kidnapped by the Joker and the Key , the Titans assisted the Justice League in attempting to track the trio down, and were witness to David escaping his confinement and nearly killing the Joker.  Afterwards, Superman left with David, intending to find a way to remove David's powers; this set off a chain of events that resulted in Boy Thunder being cast adrift in the Multiverse.
Further Adventures
The team later expanded, taking on Cave Boy , Dove (Don Hall) , Hawk , Guardian , Bumblebee , Duela Dent , Golden Eagle and others. [ 4 ]
World's Finest
At some point following the departure of Golden Eagle from active duty as a hero, the Teen Titans operated with a smaller roster consisting of Robin, Wonder Girl, Aqualad, Kid Flash, Speedy, Roy Harper, and Bumblebee.  During this time, they operated out of the Titans Lair, a compound paid for by Green Arrow .  Despite being retired, Charlie continued to aid the Titans, managing their social media and outreach and enabling anybody in need to reach out to the Titans.  They fought a number of minor foes, like David Trask, the Separated Man. [ 5 ]
During this period, Robin and Speedy frequently argued over Speedy's focus on social media fame and use of drones and other methods to live-stream some of their adventures for their fans.  Additionally, the fact that the other members of the team had shared their identities with one another but Robin refused to (under orders from Batman ) resulted in additional tension. [ 6 ]
New Teen Titans
In time, a new team arose with a roster that included Cyborg , Beast Boy , Raven and Starfire , all of whom lived in Titans Tower , a headquarters for the team constructed by Cyborg's father, Silas Stone . [ 7 ]
During this iteration, one of the team's greatest foes was Brother Blood and his cult.  Despite an intervention by the Justice League, Brother Blood continued to operate.  It was also during this period that the Titans came into conflict with H.I.V.E. , a conflict that eventually resulted in the inadvertent death of Ravager , leading to Ravager's father, Deathstroke swearing vengeance on the group. [ 8 ]
Later Iterations
Several versions of the team would form over time, nearly all of them featuring one Robin or another, with the notable exception being the Team Titans . [ 9 ]
Conflict with Mister Twister
Their Final Fight
At some point, the original Teen Titans came back together and faced off against the incredibly powerful Mister Twister. In order to prevent him from unleashing evil upon the whole universe, the Titans had to completely forget Twister, the Teen Titans, and their past lives. This was accomplished when Omen erased the memories of everyone who had known about the Titans, including the Titans themselves. These memories remained erased until Twister continued to grow in power without the aid of the Titans, starting the whole ordeal over again.
New 52
Tim's New Team
A new iteration of the Teen Titans was founded by Tim Drake as a counter-attack force to deal with N.O.W.H.E.R.E. and its leader, Harvest . As no one could remember earlier teams, Tim Drake believed this to be the first iteration of the Teen Titans.
It's Our Right to Fight
United against N.O.W.H.E.R.E.!
Fighting against a mysterious organization called N.O.W.H.E.R.E. which abducts young metahumans and kills the ones who refuse to follow their orders, Tim Drake recruits several teenagers targeted by this new, menacing enemy. Red Robin wants to build an alliance, as he knows that they cannot go against N.O.W.H.E.R.E. alone. He first reaches out to Cassie Sandsmark , a girl with the powers of an amazon, but fails to convince her to join his initiative. [ 10 ] While travelling to New York with another young meta he helped, Celine Patterson , Tim meets Miguel Barragan , a Mexican hero calling himself Bunker, who saw Tim's plea about joining forces and came to the United States to find and join him. [ 11 ]
Now in Manhattan , Tim, Miguel and Celine then welcome a pair of escapees from N.O.W.H.E.R.E.'s fortress, Kid Flash and Solstice . While knowing each other, they stumble on a TV broadcast showing Cassie fighting a mysterious super-human with an "S" symbol on his chest, right in the middle of Times Square . Helping a friend, the Teen Titans get together for the first time, battling it out against this unknown enemy who works for N.O.W.H.E.R.E. as well. [ 12 ] While unable to defeat him, the Titans make this self-appointed "Superboy" doubt the cause of his masters: he decides to leave them be and go away. [ 13 ]
Back inside Tim's headquarters, the team soon has to help Bart Allen with his powers, destabilized after his fight with Superboy. Calling for the help of genius young scientist Virgil Hawkins , the Titans and Virgil succeed in creating a suit able to contain Bart's power, letting him be in control. [ 14 ] They soon find out that N.O.W.H.E.R.E. captured Superboy, with the intention to kill him, and with the help of an insider, Danny the Street , the Titans get into the fortress where Superboy is held prisoner.
A fight ensues, and while all hell breaks loose, Tim tries to steal proofs of N.O.W.H.E.R.E.'s actions, a thing that enrages Solstice: the girl thinks they should spend their time inside the fortress to save as much young metahumans as they can, but Tim finds that gathering proof of the organization's criminal activities is prior. This discussion breaks up their opportunity to escape, as the Titans find themselves in the hands of the leader of N.O.W.H.E.R.E., the mysterious Harvest. [ 15 ]
The Culling
After getting brainwashed by Omen, one of Harvest's Ravagers , the team is sent inside an hostile environment together with a lot of young metahumans: they have to take part in a battle royal to the death, called The Culling, which functions as a selection method for new members of the Ravagers. [ 16 ] While trying to understand what to do and searching for each other, the Titans end up face to face with another team, a group of Legion of Super-Heroes members lost in time. As Harvest plan was to see how the two teams would interact with each other, they end up to be allies, fighting the other metahumans and trying to stop them from killing each other. [ 17 ]
Facing Their Nemesis
Soon, Harvest sends the Ravagers to take care of them but the combined effort of the two teams is enough to defeat their enemies. Studying together and escape plan, they soon get confronted by Harvest himself that thanks to a blend of future technology is too much of a match for anyone. As last resort, the Legion decides to blow up the central core of the fortress with the Titans agreeing, even if it could mean they won't survive the explosion. As Harvest flees, the Legion members blow up the core and then teleport themselves away, getting back to their timeline thanks to a device found inside Harvest's headquarters. [ 18 ] Superboy succeeds in utilizing his tactile telekinesis to shield everyone and the Titans are safe.
The problem is that they are in a mysterious and unknown island, still inhabited by dinosaurs. As Bart and Kiran develop a relationship and also Cassie and Kon get closer, the Titans receive the help of Danny the Street: he's dying and his last wish is to bring the team back to Manhattan. Even if Tim initially refuses his sacrifice, in the end he and the Titans accept the will of Danny who transfers them safely to their base. [ 19 ]
The Origin of Wonder Girl
The Origins of Wonder Girl
Back from their fight with Harvest, Kid Flash, Bunker and Solstice are fighting a criminal inside their headquarters, Loose Cannon , who catfished Miguel on Craigslist. As Cassie helps them defeat him, she goes into a state of berserk, completely controlled by her Silent Armor. [ 20 ] Soon, Tim and Kon get back and try to help Cassie get back in control, utilizing then Kon-El's telekinesis to strip Cassie out of the armor. As all seems to go well, a mysterious ex boyfriend of Cassie, Diesel , appears and takes the armor for himself. [ 21 ]
The three heroes decide to travel to Cambodia , as Cassie explains them that in her last moments with Diesel, they were in South America to assist to another excavation of Cassandra's mother, Helena Sandsmark , a world renowned archaeologist. Exploring the site in search of treasures to steal, Diesel found the armor and dressed himself in it. After finding him, Cassie took the armor for herself, feeling like it was her destiny to do so, but fails in saving Diesel from the collapse of the galleries they were in. Thinking her boyfriend was dead, Cassie left with an hole in her heart.
As Diesel is back and now wears the Silent Armor, he wants to use all the obscure and arcane powers of this sentient weapon: in fact, Tim soon discovers this mysterious artifact is connected to an old legend associated with a creature named Trigon . [ 22 ] After neutralizing Diesel, Cassie takes the armor back and both Tim and Kon promise her they will do anything to help her remain in control from now on. [ 23 ]
Death of the Family
Main article: Death of the Family
After Red Robin leaves for Gotham because of a distress call from Batman, the Titans find a puppet and a message of the Joker, suggesting he kidnapped their leader. [ 24 ] Afraid of what could happen to Tim, the Titans rally to rescue him, contacting Batgirl as Tim suggested they should do if something to him happened while in Gotham.
While Joker has captured Tim Drake, he reveals to him that the message he left for his team was a bait to lure them to Gotham. The clown infected the Titans' speedster, Bart Allen, with Joker Toxin and now, as Kid Flash moves at supersonic speed around the city, he does not know he's infecting the population. Of course, he will also infect the rest of the Titans. Soon, the Outlaws get in Gotham [ 25 ] and help the Titans and Batgirl contain the situation, with the young heroes getting cured of their condition. Even with their combined efforts, the Titans and the Outlaws are unable to track down and save neither Red Robin or Red Hood , also prisoner of the clown prince of crime. [ 26 ]
Tim survives Joker's master-plan, but the trauma is hard to handle for the Titans. To restart with the best intentions, Tim buys a yacht to serve as the new Titans headquarters. [ 27 ]
Raven and Trigon
While the Titans try to digest the battle against Harvest, they live their new team life: Tim Drake in particular feels and acts different, seducing both Solstice and Wonder Girl behind the backs of his friends. Then, he brings the team to Belle Reve tricking them into thinking a young metahuman was held prisoner there, while Tim only wanted to close a private deal with Amanda Waller . As Cassie and Kon confront him about his attitude, the Titans must stop arguing to handle a threat in the middle of New York City : the demonic Trigon appeared out of nowhere to start his conquer of the planet Earth. [ 28 ]
Facing the might of Trigon!
Unable to face him as he's too powerful, the Titans soon get helped by Trigon's own daughter, Raven, who rebels against the evil his father represents. Together with her is another metahuman, Beast Boy, who the Titans previously encountered as one of the prisoners of Harvest during The Culling. Trigon then detects another metahuman on the field, Simon Jones , and he amplifies his powers to kill dozens of soldiers that intervened in the conflict. Trigon soon leaves, making the impression that everything he wanted was placing the Titans in a crisis in front of the world. [ 29 ]
Tim then recruits Raven inside the team, meanwhile fighting a possession he does not know is even effecting him. After facing Trigon's three sons and defeating them, Raven tells the Titans that the Simon Jones incident was only an illusion his father orchestrated to trick them. [ 30 ] Trigon then comes back, revealing his intention was to test the resilience of the Titans' leader, Tim Drake. After leaving once again with his real intents still a mystery, Raven officially becomes a member of the team and reveals publicly all the things Tim did under the possession of his father, bringing the team to a break point thanks to jealousy that both Bart and Kon prove about Tim's secret adventures with both Kiran and Cassie.
As Raven is alone, his father compliments her about accomplishing her mission: infiltrate herself inside the Titans, ready to make them her lieutenants in her conquest of the planet, as Trigon cannot conquer Earth without the help of his daughter. [ 31 ]
Into the Timestream
When all of Earth's greatest heroes were gone and the Crime Syndicate had taken over the world, the Teen Titans attempted to challenge the Crime Syndicate, but were easily overpowered by Johnny Quick and Atomika and were then flung into the timestream . [ 32 ]
During their travels, Tim Drake suggested that Raven could use her powers to manipulate the energy within the time stream. Raven succeeded in anchoring the Titans with her soul-self, teleporting them through time. [ 33 ] The Titans arrived 20 years into the future, where the Jonathan Lane Kent , has massacred most of Earth's superheroes, leaving only a few, including Beast Boy, now calling himself Beast Man, and Rose Wilson , his wife. Kon-El and Jon rhen battled, and Kon triumphed. But Kon was sent elsewhere by an unknown power, and a severely injured Jon was swapped unknowingly as Superboy by Logan and Wilson, as a plan to try to stop the future they were living from ever happening. [ 34 ]
Trial of Kid Flash
The whole team is finally reunited in the 30th century, where they find Kid Flash and Solstice fighting some rebels, former allies of Bart who he forgot even existed after appearing in the Titans' original timeline. [ 35 ] As they were fighting, Echo, an organization of law-keepers, stops the conflict and takes Bart, as he must be trialed for crimes of war. Brain 3, the commander of Echo, explains that Kid Flash was originally called Bar Torr and was the head of a revolutionary movement trying to destroy the Functionary, an absolute form of government with only one, absolute law: abide all freedom and follow the orders. Echo, to protect him from being killed and to trial him as the law orders to do, sent him in a different timeline, erasing his memory.
Guilty as Charged!
With Raven destroyed by having to drag the Titans through time and Superboy, even if secretly not Kon-El, severely injured, Tim takes the decision to surrender and travel under the protection of Echo to assist Bart in his trial. Soon, the Titans discover that their comrade wasn't the kid they thought he was: Bart killed in the name of the revolution, without mercy or doubt in his eyes. Still, the Titans, especially Solstice, do not want to leave him to his destiny. [ 36 ]
As the time of Bart serving as a witness comes, he reveals the whole thing, including transferring to another timeline and being a Titan, was a plan he orchestrated to gather high agents of the Functionary to his trial: now him and his resistance can kill them all.
In the end, Bart is captured and condemned to serve a life of forced work on a distant and lonely planet. Solstice, in love with him, kills an agent of the Functionary just to be condemned to the same punishment. [ 37 ] As Bart, Kiran and also Superboy decide to remain in the 30th century, Tim, Raven and Cassie come back [ 38 ] , reuniting with Beast Boy, Bunker and Skitter. After helping the heroes survive the reign of the Crime Syndicate, the Titans live one last adventure together, putting a stop to Harvest once and for all and closing a circle. [ 39 ] Raven also discovers that, after her return, she cannot feel her father's power anymore and she's finally free to live like she wants. [ 40 ]
A second incarnation of Tim Drake's team, came back together after a crisis that saw several key members, like Superboy and Kid Flash, leave the team.
S.T.A.R. Labs
Rise to Fame
After an unknown amount of time, Red Robin founded a new team with an almost identical lineup (minus Kid Flash, Skitter, Solstice, and Superboy). [ 41 ] The new team encountered an A.I.-powered android known as Algorithm . The android was committing terror attacks against S.T.A.R. Labs in Manhattan. [ 42 ] While investigating a possible connection between the android and S.T.A.R., Red Robin was attacked by Algorithm. After a brief skirmish, he destroyed the android. He then met Manchester Black , a high-level official for S.T.A.R. Black admitted that S.T.A.R. was responsible for the construction of the android, but not it going rogue. He then offers a partnership between S.T.A.R. and the Titans, a "team up." Red Robin then accepts and introduces the Titans to Black. [ 43 ]
While fighting several teenagers who had taken power-granting pills and had gone on a rampage, the Titans encountered Tanya Spears , a teenager with superstrength. She assisted them in their fight against the punks. [ 44 ] After returning to Beast Boy and Bunker's apartment, she explained to them that she had been given her powers by Karen Starr , otherwise known as Power Girl . After Tanya and Wonder Girl got into an argument with Tim over the way the Titan's operate, Cassie and Wonder Girl left and went to Cassie's apartment, where her mother was waiting. Soon after, Manchester Black approached them to tell them of a coming attack that would be worse than any of Algorithm's attacks. While taking, the S.T.A.R. Labs facility on Governor's Island exploded. [ 45 ]
After discussing what their next course of action should be, the Titans teleported to the ruins on Governor's Island. Black explained that the terrorists, who were already in the Vault of S.T.A.R., were planning on unleashing weapons of mass destruction that were built by S.T.A.R. After capturing one of the terrorists, Raven examined his mind. She uncovered the terrorists' ultimate plan: to destroy Manhattan with an extremely large explosive device known as "The Eraser." After a brief skirmish, the Titans were able to prevent the terrorists from activating the Eraser. They then unknowingly used the terrorists' holo-projector to announce that Manhattan was no longer in danger. It also informally announced Tanya Spears as the new Power Girl, and member of the Teen Titans. [ 46 ]
Because of their saving New York, the Titans increased in fame dramatically. Beast Boy was offered a role to be the host of Comedy Tonight. Raven protected her tribute band, Dark Mistress form an impromptu riot. Wonder Girl kept her gang of Wonder Girls from beating up a stalker. After their popularity surge, Red Robin became suspicious of Manchester Black, who seemingly enjoyed the attention. He was trying to get more information about the most powerful weapon that had been created by S.T.A.R., one even more powerful than the Eraser. Black assures him that it doesn't exist, but Red Robin isn't convinced. Black then shows him a video of Superboy, who had supposedly killed many people. [ 47 ]
Return of Superboy
Rogue Targets
After seeing the video, Red Robin does research to see if it is actually true. Unfortunately, it was, and the entire world was aware of it! Tim later met with Cassie, who was extremely distraught over it.They later went to see if they could find Kon. Tim calls on the Titans to join together to find Kon to help. However, they did not know that a Durlan named Ra'ut L'lwer had helped Kon escape from J'onn J'onzz , the Martian Manhunter. Manhunter, who was seeking to kill Kon for what he had done, found them at Gar and Miguel's apartment. Kon lashed out at him and knocked him unconscious. Once again, Tanya and Cassie got into an argument with the rest of the Titan. It ended with the Titans leaving with Kon and Ra'ut, while Cassie and Tanya talked with Manchester Black. He offered them a place on S.T.A.R. Labs' new team: the Elite , to which they accept. [ 48 ]
While training with their new team, Cassie received a call from Tim, who was trying to get her and Tanya back on the team. She declined, and unknowingly helped Black track Tim and the Titans to an abandoned steel mill in Youngstown, Ohio . However, it was a trick, and the Titans were in downtown Chicago . Even though they were trying to lay low, Miguel, Gar, and Raven were recognized, and they attracted a large crowd. While surrounded by the crowd, a woman was pushed onto the tracks of the L-train. Gar and Miguel fully revealed themselves to save her, but Kon swooped in just before the woman was killed. Because Kon was still technically an escaped murderer, the police responded immediately. Manchester Black and S.T.A.R. also noticed, and decided on sending their team on their first mission. The Titans escaped before the Elite showed up, but, with the help of Klarion , they found the Titans soon after. [ 49 ]
The Titans and the Elite argue over what should happen to Kon, but it turns into an all-out brawl. They continue to fight until Superboy escapes Wonder Girl. The Elite then teleport back to Black, who had been talking to Tim and Raven. After trying to read Black's mind, Raven was knocked unconscious because of how dark Black's mind was. Before Tim escaped, Black told him that, if they wanted to clear Kon's name, they would have to break into the Metropolis Armory Ward, or the M.A.W. [ 50 ]
After escaping Black and the Elite, the Titans went into hiding once again, trying to plan their next course of action. They eventually decide to break into the M.A.W. to help Kon, who is in hiding. The next day, they break in. Raven tells them that the person she saw in relation to Kon in Black's mind is Despero . In order to get to Despero, they would have to temporarily let every inmate out, including Blockbuster and Livewire . Right before many of the inmates escaped the facility completely, Kon showed up, and took them down. [ 50 ]
All of a sudden, Tim, Kon, Cassie and Bart were transported to a place that appeared to be the apartment where they first joined together to be the Titans. Afer seeing various visions and images of their past, it was revealed that Harvest was the one responsible for it. Harvest attempted to win Kon over, but the Titans retaliated. But, Kon convinced them to stop. He told them that they were the best heroes—and the best friends he had ever known. He later disappeared with alongside Harvest, leaving Tim, Bart, and Cassie alone in the illusion. [ 51 ]
Because there were still convicts roaming the halls of the prison, Miguel, Raven, and Gar were forced to keep them at bay. The main person they faced was the incredibly powerful Doctor Psycho , and they were soon all taken out. But, when Psycho tried to read Raven's mind, he was immediately put into a catatonic state over the dark and horrendous things he saw. They were then able to round up the rest of the escaped convicts.
Soon after, Tim found a way to hack the teleport that Harvest used to bring them to his lair.  After the Titans were all back together, the prison guards started shooting at them for breaking in.
Nearby, Manchester Black was trying to convince Despero to help him defeat the Titans once and for all, but Chimera was actually posing as Despero to lead Black into a trap. They took Black down soon after, and the Elite met with them to assess the situation. All of a sudden, Alpha Centurion showed up to take them into S.T.A.R. Labs' custody. [ 52 ]
On the Run
Fugitives
While being taken to S.T.A.R., the Titans were rescued by Doomed . Almost immediately, Alpha Centurion showed up with the Pax Galactica to take the Titans back into custody but was defeated in the process. Tim joined Red Hood, who was working to take down the anti- Robin movement. [ 53 ]
After fleeing the scene, the Titans split up. Raven, Beast Boy, Bunker, and Power Girl stayed in Tim's hideout in Gotham, and Wonder Girl, Kid Flash, Chimera, and Doomed went to the estate of one of Cassie's "friends" in Kane County outside of Gotham.
After feeling an immense amount of dark thoughts in Gotham, Raven and her group went to investigate. They found Professor Pyg making the cast and crew of a high school play "perfect." They were about to take him down, but Pyg's Dollotrons surrounded them and knocked them out. They woke up strapped down on gurneys, ready for Pyg to transform them into his dollotrons. They also discovered that Pyg had drawn some of Gar's blood, and transfused it into a young woman. The woman soon transformed into a large, monstrous creature as a result of the transfusion. Pyg escaped during the struggle that ensued, and Raven was able to bring the woman back to her human form. Unfortunately, they found out that Pyg had stollen blood from all of them. [ 54 ]
After leaving the theater, they went back to Tim's hideout, where Tim met them. While discussing the increasingly dangerous situation, a group of Durlans showed up, demanding for them to hand her over. After a brief struggle, Chimera agreed to go with them. They then left, leaving the Titans in the ruins of Tim's hideout. Right after she left, they noticed that Bart had left also. He left them a message stating that he went back to the future to be with Solstice. Reiser then told Tim that he should go back to Metropolis. Tim agreed, and Raven brought him back to his home. A week later, the remaining titans took down a small gang in Heaton, Pennsylvania , where they decided to stay for the time being. [ 55 ]
Who Is Wonder Girl?
Who is Wonder Girl?
While hiding in Waynesboro, Virginia , Wonder Girl told Tim that she felt the need to come out of hiding. She later went off on her own, meeting with Ravne, Tanya, and Beast Boy. Even though Raven tried to talk to her, Cassie flew off to London . Shortly after, the Titans showed up just in time to fight hyena-men that were attacking Cassie. After defeating them, Cassie went into an apartment, where she found her father's head in stone. Cassandra, Cassie's aunt, showed up and offered Cassie a chance to help her restore her father to life. Cassie and Cassandra teleported away with the other Titans, leaving the Tim in the ruins of Wonder Woman's apartment. Wonder Woman then asked him what had happened. [ 56 ]
After explaining who Cassandra to Tim, they followed her and the Titans to Delphi , Greece . After a fight involving the Titans, Cassandra, and the hyena-men, Wonder Woman used her Lasso of Truth to discover whether or not Cassandra was telling the truth. She found out that she is, in fact, telling the truth, and that Cassie is actually her niece, too. [ 57 ]
After deciding to bring Cassie's father, Lennox, back to life, they ventured into the ruins at Delphi to find the Rod of Asclepius. After debating whether they should give Wonder Woman or Cassandra the Rod, Cassie gave it to Cassandra, who then used it to heal her throat and voice. Cassandra then froze the Titans and Wonder Woman with her newly-healed voice. Cassie was able to escape, and then ripped Cassandra's throat apart just as her father had done many years earlier. Cassie then used the remainder of the Rod's power to heal Cassandra's throat, but not her voice. Soon after, Wonder Woman took Cassandra to Mount Olympus , where she could be judged by the Gods of Olympus for what she had done. Even though Wonder Woman offered to take Cassie with them, she declined, stating that the Titans were her family. [ 58 ]
Final Adventures
End of an era
After being upset by an internet troll, the Brain unleashes mind-control devices upon the animals and visitors of the Central Park Zoo. After being defeated by the Titans, Raven temporarily put the Brain and Mallah in Azarath to keep them out of trouble. The Titans then realized that, during the battle, Tim had disappeared. He had been kidnapped by Amanda Waller's operatives and was taken to Belle Reve. [ 59 ]
After discovering that Waller had taken Tim, the Titans broke into Belle Reve to rescue Tim, proving waller wrong that they were helpless without him. She told them that the original reason she had taken him was to see whether or not they were " Squad material ". Fortunately, they weren't. [ 60 ]
While in New Orleans , the Titans found out from Batman that Amanda Waller had used her connections in the government to have all criminal charges against the Titans dropped. During their call with him, all of the power and electronics in the city suddenly went down. Soon after, Raven shielded them from a mysterious wave that went over the city. They discovered that H.I.V.E. Queen was responsible. She was able to take control of all of the citizens' minds save the Titans. After the Queen tried to read Tim's mind, she was knocked out because he had a set a "chaos trap" fueled by Raven's dark magic. [ 61 ]
After returning to New York, the Titans went to the hottest underground "club" where they planned on relaxing. Unfortunately, many of the clubgoers started transforming into green hybrid animals. The Titans deduced that it was most likely the result of Professor Pyg stealing Gar's blood. While searching for the source, Tim and Gar discovered that Sister Blood had acquired the blood from Pyg to experiment upon. The Titans were able to defeat and capture Sister Blood and the Brotherhood of Blood . [ 62 ]
The Titans met after Tim Drake's apparent death to reminisce. They each recalled their fondest memory involving Tim. Miguel brought a time where he and Tim went shopping for clothes for Tim's high school alumni event. Tayna mentioned a time where Tim unknowingly helped her accept that she could be her own Power Girl without having to live up to the original Power Girl's image. Raven told how he helped her cope with her anger and hurt over what her father had done. Gar explained that, out of all of the Robins , Tim was the one who he had the highest for. Cassie told of a time when she and Tim saved several people from a large fire.
After recollecting for a while, they were unsure what their next course of action should be. They all agreed to go their separate ways and disband the team. Raven decided to connect with family in San Francisco . Miguel dropped off Gar at the airport. Gar was planning on meeting with a cousin who had connections to show business. Cassie and Tanya said that they would continue fighting evil as Wonder Girl and Power Girl. [ 63 ]
Rebirth
Conflict with Mister Twister
Despite being unable to remember their true histories, several of the original Teen Titans were able to banish Twister back to his realm, defeating him once and for all. They did not know, however, that there was another, forgotten member: Wally West.
After the events of DC Rebirth , several of the original members formed another team know simply as the Titans . [ 64 ]
Damian's Team
Founded by Damian Wayne , who forced the team to come together trying to counter the Demon's Fist from completing its mission: killing every member of this new incarnation.
Demon's Fist Hunt
At the mercy of the Demon's Thumb
After Tim Drake disbanded the Teen Titans, he was soon succeeded by Damian Wayne after he had turned thirteen. He began to recruit his team by knocking out and kidnapping Kid Flash , Beast Boy, Raven, and Starfire. When his kidnappees woke up in Damian's base on the west coast, he explained to them that a group of metahumans known as the Demon's Fist had targeted all of them for assassination. Then the members of the Demon's Fist arrive at the underground base and battle the new Teen Titans. The Titans narrowly escape on Damian's jet and camp out in the forests of California. Then Damian leaves the new Titans and returns to Infinity Island , the headquarters of the League of Assassins .
Lazarus Contract
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dark Nights: Metal: The Resistance
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Return of Kid Flash / Super Sons of Tomorrow
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Damian's Second Team
After deciding to disband the first incarnation of his team, Damian tries to form a new Teen Titans group. The only member of the fourth formation that is reintegrated, besides Damian himself, is Kid Flash.
The Other
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Djinn Wars
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Infinite Frontier
Titans Academy
Nightwing, Beast Boy, Raven, Cyborg, Donna Troy and Starfire formed an academy in honor of Roy Harper to train new Titans. [ 65 ] The senior class was largely comprised of former members of Damian's team, and operated as active duty Teen Titans in the field.
Notes
Teen Titans were created by Bob Haney , George Kashdan and Bruno Premiani , first appearing in The Brave and the Bold #54 . However, in the rebooted Prime Earth continuity their first appearance as part of the DC Universe is in Scott Lobdell and Brett Booth 's New 52 Teen Titans series.
Trivia
Their fight against the Brotherhood of Blood was most likely the Titans' last adventure before Tim Drake's "death." [ 61 ]
Long before the events of Titans Hunt , references were made to another group going by the name of the Teen Titans, but this seemed to be retconned after the issues were published into trade paperback format, with panels of dialogue being altered or erased. [ 66 ] However, this is now known to be true. There was an incarnation of the Teen Titans formed by Dick Grayson before Red Robin founded his team. In contrast, it was said that Arsenal, Nightwing, and Starfire were once members of an earlier iteration of the Teen Titans that preceded the one created by Red Robin by several years. [ 67 ] This was later stated as true. With the exception of Starfire, an original Titans team including Nightwing (then Robin), Arsenal (then Speedy), and Tempest (then Aqualad) did, in fact, exist before Tim formed his version of the Teen Titans. Later on, it was revealed that Starfire was, in fact, a member of Dick's team. [ 68 ] A similar event happened in the Batwoman trade paperback, with a panel of Flamebird referring to herself as a Teen Titan and having battled Deathstroke being altered. [ 69 ]
In contrast, it was said that Arsenal, Nightwing, and Starfire were once members of an earlier iteration of the Teen Titans that preceded the one created by Red Robin by several years. [ 67 ] This was later stated as true. With the exception of Starfire, an original Titans team including Nightwing (then Robin), Arsenal (then Speedy), and Tempest (then Aqualad) did, in fact, exist before Tim formed his version of the Teen Titans. Later on, it was revealed that Starfire was, in fact, a member of Dick's team. [ 68 ]
A similar event happened in the Batwoman trade paperback, with a panel of Flamebird referring to herself as a Teen Titan and having battled Deathstroke being altered. [ 69 ]
Long before the events of Titans Hunt, it is now known that several other iterations of the Titans existed before Tim Drake founded a new group to fight the Culling.  Logically this battle with Mister Twister takes place after those later iterations, though Titans Hunt depicts the members in their childhood outfits.
See Also
296 Appearances of Teen Titans (Prime Earth)
204 Images that include Teen Titans (Prime Earth)
Team Gallery: Teen Titans (Prime Earth)
Links and References
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 New History of the DC Universe #2
↑ Titans 2025 Annual (Volume 4) #1
↑ Batman/Superman: World's Finest #9
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal The Last Stories of the DC Universe #1
↑ World's Finest: Teen Titans #1
↑ World's Finest: Teen Titans #1
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #54
↑ Titans (Volume 3) #11
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal The Last Stories of the DC Universe #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #3
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #4
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #5
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #6
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #7
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #8
↑ Teen Titans Annual (Volume 4) #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #9
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #10
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #11
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #12
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #13
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #14
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #14
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #15
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #16
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #17
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #18
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #19
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #21
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #22
↑ Forever Evil #2
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #24
↑ Teen Titans Annual (Volume 4) #2
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #26
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #27
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #28
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #29
↑ Teen Titans Annual (Volume 4) #3
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 4) #30
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #3
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #4
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #5
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #6
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #7
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #8
↑ Teen Titans Annual (Volume 5) #1
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #9
↑ 50.0 50.1 Teen Titans (Volume 5) #10
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #11
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #13
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #14
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #15
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #16
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #17
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #18
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #19
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #21
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #22
↑ 61.0 61.1 Teen Titans (Volume 5) #23
↑ Teen Titans Annual (Volume 5) #2
↑ Teen Titans (Volume 5) #24
↑ Titans (Volume 3) #1
↑ Teen Titans Academy #1
↑ https://www.bleedingcool.com/2012/09/16/retconning-robin-out-of-teen-titans-1/
↑ Secret Origins (Volume 3) #8
↑ The Flash Annual (Volume 5) #1
↑ https://insidepulse.com/2012/10/24/batwoman-hydrology-next-dc-comics-new-52-collection-with-changes-but-deathstroke-still-looms-large-dc-nation-young-justice-invasion-cartoon-network-cws-arrow-teen-titans-batman/

Garth(disambiguation)
Tempest ( 2011 - Present ) Tempest Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Tempest ( 2011 - Present )
Garth is an Atlantean superhero and member of the Aquaman Family . Born to the lost tribe of the purple-eyed Idylists , he is son of King Thar and Queen Berra . Originally using the alias Aqualad as sidekick to Aquaman , he eventually matured and began using the name Tempest . He is a founding member of the Teen Titans and the Sentinels of Magic .
Garth was created by Robert Bernstein and Ramona Fradon , first appearing in Adventure Comics #269 ( 1960 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 1.2 52 1.3 Pre-Crisis 1.4 Elseworlds 1.5 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52
1.2 52
1.3 Pre-Crisis
1.4 Elseworlds
1.5 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 Teen Titans TV Multiverse 2.2 Tomorrowverse 2.3 Others
2.1 Teen Titans TV Multiverse
2.2 Tomorrowverse
2.3 Others
3 See Also
Multiverse
The New 52
52
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Possible Futures
Other Media
Teen Titans TV Multiverse
Tomorrowverse
Others
See Also
Aqualad
Tempest

Tim Drake(disambiguation)
Robin ( 2011 - Present ) Robin Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Robin ( 2011 - Present )
Tim Drake is a member of the Batman Family who has taken several names. Originally he became the third Robin , following Dick Grayson 's ascension to Nightwing and the death of Jason Todd , when he figured out Bruce Wayne 's secret identity. Proving himself in combat, he was taken on for training, and would eventually become one of the world's greatest detectives and martial artists. Battle for the Cowl saw him briefly becoming Batman . Grayson took the role permanently and Damian Wayne became Tim's successor as Robin. Taking on his own persona, Drake took the costume of Red Robin . He is a founding member of Young Justice alongside his closest friends Superboy and Kid Flash , and has also been a member of the Teen Titans .
Tim Drake was created by Marv Wolfman and Pat Broderick , first appearing in Batman #436 ( 1989 ).
Contents
1 Multiverse 1.1 The New 52 Multiverse 1.2 Dark Multiverse 1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse 1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse 1.5 Hypertime 1.6 Elseworlds 1.7 Alternate Timelines 1.8 Possible Futures
1.1 The New 52 Multiverse
1.2 Dark Multiverse
1.3 Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
1.4 Pre-Crisis Multiverse
1.5 Hypertime
1.6 Elseworlds
1.7 Alternate Timelines
1.8 Possible Futures
2 Other Media 2.1 DC Animated Universe 2.2 Lego Dimensions 2.3 Injustice Multiverse 2.4 Others
2.1 DC Animated Universe
2.2 Lego Dimensions
2.3 Injustice Multiverse
2.4 Others
3 Comics
4 See Also
Multiverse
The New 52 Multiverse
Dark Multiverse
Pre-Flashpoint Multiverse
Pre-Crisis Multiverse
Hypertime
Elseworlds
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Lego Dimensions
Injustice Multiverse
Others
Comics
See Also
Comic series featuring Tim Drake
Robin
Red Robin

Trigon (Prime Earth)
Trigon Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Trigon Other Aliases Lord Trigon · The Devil · Trigon the Merciless · Trigon the Invincible Relatives The Divine (creators · deceased), [ 1 ] Belial (son, deceased), Ruskoff (son, deceased), Suge (son, deceased), Raven / Doctor Hate (daughter), Trilogy (son), Two unnamed sons, Bertok-Raaf (niece), Etrigan (grandson), Merlin (grandson) Affiliation Satanic Triumvirate Base Of Operations Underrealm of the Six Kingdoms of Trigon, Hell Status Alignment Bad Identity Public Identity Citizenship Hellion Marital Status Widowed Occupation Conqueror · Hell Lord Characteristics Gender Male Height Variable Weight Variable Eyes Yellow Hair White · Black Skin Red Origin Universe Prime Earth · Sphere of the Gods Creators Marv Wolfman · George Pérez First Appearance The Phantom Stranger Vol 4  #1 ( December, 2012 )
Trigon
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Skin
Origin
Universe
Creators
Trigon is an incredibly powerful demon and celestial conqueror. He is an enemy to the Teen Titans and the archenemy of his daughter Raven .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origins 1.2 Teen Titans 1.3 Lazarus Planet 1.4 Dawn of DC
1.1 Origins
1.2 Teen Titans
1.3 Lazarus Planet
1.4 Dawn of DC
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
3 Notes
4 Related 4.1 Footnotes
4.1 Footnotes
History
Origins
Trigon was originally the ruler of an unknown planet in the Multiverse . Eventually, a trinity of beings called the Divine came to his planet, during their quest to eradicate the concept of evil, through an item known as the Heart of Darkness . The Divine then used the Heart of Darkness on Trigon and his guards. However, they were horrified when Trigon not only resisted, but consumed the Heart of Darkness, along with the collected evils of nearly one hundred galaxies, which heralded the true birth of Trigon. With his newfound power, Trigon killed the Divine, who he revealed were his parents, before shredding them of their flesh and wearing their skin. [ 1 ]
Now driven by insatiable hunger for evil, Trigon moved slowly from universe to universe, spreading his devastating brand of evil in order to sate a hunger that knows no end. He became the ruler of dozens of dark kingdoms across the multiverse. However, enslaving worlds eventually became tedious to him. [ 2 ] Trigon began summoning women from other worlds to mate with and impregnate them, then send them back in an attempt to spread his evil across countless universes. Thousands of brides were brought to Trigon, however all of them either died during conception or took their own lives after being impregnated, as they couldn't live with the thought of giving birth to Trigon's spawn. [ 1 ]
Eventually, Trigon is brought a human from Earth known as Arella , who gives him his first daughter; Raven . [ 1 ] Shortly after her birth, Arella and Raven sought refuge in Azarath - a dimension dedicated to the notion of universal peace. [ 2 ] This allowed Raven to elude Trigon for years, until Raven was eventually brought to him by the Phantom Stranger . [ 3 ]
At some point in time, Trigon claimed his place the hierarchy of Hell , ruling over his own pocket dimension within Hell, called the Underrealm of the Six Kingdoms of Trigon. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Part of Trigon's underrealm is referred to as the Dark Dimension, by the All-Caste . This realm can be accessed behind the Great Door of Azarath . [ 6 ]
Teen Titans
Lazarus Planet
Dawn of DC
Eventually, a new version of the Satanic Triumvirate was formed, composing of Trigon, the First of the Fallen , and Lady Blaze as the leader.
At the climax of Darkseid 's rampage across the Godsphere , he reached Hell searching for the Spectre . After quickly defeating the legions of Hell , the New God faced the Triumvirate but, before he could slaughter them all, Trigon convinced him that the Wrath of God was not in Hell, so Darkseid opened a Boom Tube and left the Underworld for Heaven . [ 7 ]
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Demonic Physiology : Trigon was an unknown alien species spawned by a trinity of cosmic beings called the Divine , who attempted to use the Heart of Darkness to absorb the evil from Trigon's soul. However, Trigon was able to overcome and merge with the Heart of Darkness, causing him to absorb the collected evil from nearly one hundred galaxies. This transformed Trigon into a demonic creature with near limitless power. [ 1 ] Due to his particular creation and heritage, Trigon is a unique species of demon, distinctive from traditional demons from Hell . Trigon is among the most powerful beings in the universe, with his power capable of intimidating even The Quintessence . [ 8 ] Cosmic Awareness [ 9 ] Dimensional Travel : Trigon can create interdimensional portals at will. He can travel through these portals to and from his demonic dimension, and to other realms at will. [ 10 ] Eldritch Blast : Trigon can project destructive blasts of mystical energy from his eyes. [ 9 ] Enhanced Senses [ 9 ] Flight [ 1 ] Illusion Casting : Trigon is a master manipulator and can create elaborate illusions to fool others. [ 10 ] Immortality : As a demon, Trigon does not age like mortals. Trigon has stated that he has existed since the dawn of time, before the big bang. This makes him at least 13.7 billion years old, and he still hasn't aged past his prime. [ 2 ] Invulnerability : Trigon is nigh-unaffected by all forms of conventional bodily harm. He was completely unaffected by the punches of Superboy and Wonder Girl , as well as the light constructs of Bunker . Superboy expressed that hitting Trigon felt as effective as trying to destroy a mountain with a teaspoon. [ 11 ] However Trigon's skin was pierced by the unique razor sharp glider of Red Robin . [ 10 ] Magic : Trigon possesses vast magical power that he can use for a variety of effects. Trigon's magic is also passed down to his offspring, granting them unique traits, such as Raven's empathy among her other abilities. [ 12 ] Trigon has also been known to use Chaos Magic . [ 13 ] He can place an "attraction spell" on an object that can tempt even high-tier demons. [ 14 ] Metamorphosis : Trigon is able to alter his appearance at will. He was able to disguise himself in a human form, [ 15 ] as well as generate large demonic hands from within his palms to extend his reach. [ 16 ] Trigon was even able to impersonate Beast Boy and replicate his animal mimicry ability. [ 17 ] Elasticity [ 16 ] Size Alteration [ 15 ] Molecular Reconstruction : Trigon can manipulate matter on a molecular level. He was capable of using this power to disintegrate the Three Divine and restructure their flesh into a cloth that he wears. [ 1 ] Disintegration [ 1 ] Mind Control : Trigon can possess anyone he feels necessary for his plots. He has controlled hundreds of people and the most powerful of champions. During his battle with the Teen Titans he was able to possess a majority of its members. [ 10 ] Necrotic Empowerment : Trigon hungers for evil, and is empowered by darkness and death. [ 1 ] Pyrokinesis : Trigon can generate and manipulate hellfire at will. [ 1 ] He can project its as fiery blasts, or spew it from his mouth, and erupt it from the floor. [ 10 ] Trigon's body also gives off a powerful heat. [ 10 ] Thermal-Blast : Trigon is capable of projecting hellfire from his mouth and as powerful blasts from his hands [ 1 ] He can also project fiery beams from his eyes. [ 11 ] Regeneration : Trigon was able to regenerate his eyesight after both of his eyes were pierced by Robin's glider. [ 10 ] He was also capable of regenerating from Bizarro ripping out his heart and temporarily killing him. [ 18 ] Summoning : Through his power to open dimensional portals, Trigon was capable of summoning women from other worlds, which he used to mate with, in order to spread his evil across the multiverse. [ 1 ] Superhuman Reflexes [ 11 ] Superhuman Strength : Trigon can crush buildings and tear apart streets. [ 10 ] Telekinesis : Trigon can mentally manipulate the movement of objects. He can even move artificial objects, such as the light constructs of Bunker. He was able to effortlessly fling Superboy aside with a casual thought, [ 11 ] he also did the same to Belial , an incredibly powerful demon in his own rite. [ 2 ] Telepathy : Trigon is able to gaze into the minds of mortals. He can learn a person's entire history by reading their mind, as he did with Kid Flash and Wonder Girl. He usually reads his opponents' minds to learn how he can manipulate them. [ 11 ]
Cosmic Awareness [ 9 ]
Dimensional Travel : Trigon can create interdimensional portals at will. He can travel through these portals to and from his demonic dimension, and to other realms at will. [ 10 ]
Eldritch Blast : Trigon can project destructive blasts of mystical energy from his eyes. [ 9 ]
Enhanced Senses [ 9 ]
Flight [ 1 ]
Illusion Casting : Trigon is a master manipulator and can create elaborate illusions to fool others. [ 10 ]
Immortality : As a demon, Trigon does not age like mortals. Trigon has stated that he has existed since the dawn of time, before the big bang. This makes him at least 13.7 billion years old, and he still hasn't aged past his prime. [ 2 ]
Invulnerability : Trigon is nigh-unaffected by all forms of conventional bodily harm. He was completely unaffected by the punches of Superboy and Wonder Girl , as well as the light constructs of Bunker . Superboy expressed that hitting Trigon felt as effective as trying to destroy a mountain with a teaspoon. [ 11 ] However Trigon's skin was pierced by the unique razor sharp glider of Red Robin . [ 10 ]
Magic : Trigon possesses vast magical power that he can use for a variety of effects. Trigon's magic is also passed down to his offspring, granting them unique traits, such as Raven's empathy among her other abilities. [ 12 ] Trigon has also been known to use Chaos Magic . [ 13 ] He can place an "attraction spell" on an object that can tempt even high-tier demons. [ 14 ]
Metamorphosis : Trigon is able to alter his appearance at will. He was able to disguise himself in a human form, [ 15 ] as well as generate large demonic hands from within his palms to extend his reach. [ 16 ] Trigon was even able to impersonate Beast Boy and replicate his animal mimicry ability. [ 17 ] Elasticity [ 16 ] Size Alteration [ 15 ]
Elasticity [ 16 ]
Size Alteration [ 15 ]
Molecular Reconstruction : Trigon can manipulate matter on a molecular level. He was capable of using this power to disintegrate the Three Divine and restructure their flesh into a cloth that he wears. [ 1 ] Disintegration [ 1 ]
Disintegration [ 1 ]
Mind Control : Trigon can possess anyone he feels necessary for his plots. He has controlled hundreds of people and the most powerful of champions. During his battle with the Teen Titans he was able to possess a majority of its members. [ 10 ]
Necrotic Empowerment : Trigon hungers for evil, and is empowered by darkness and death. [ 1 ]
Pyrokinesis : Trigon can generate and manipulate hellfire at will. [ 1 ] He can project its as fiery blasts, or spew it from his mouth, and erupt it from the floor. [ 10 ] Trigon's body also gives off a powerful heat. [ 10 ] Thermal-Blast : Trigon is capable of projecting hellfire from his mouth and as powerful blasts from his hands [ 1 ] He can also project fiery beams from his eyes. [ 11 ]
Thermal-Blast : Trigon is capable of projecting hellfire from his mouth and as powerful blasts from his hands [ 1 ] He can also project fiery beams from his eyes. [ 11 ]
Regeneration : Trigon was able to regenerate his eyesight after both of his eyes were pierced by Robin's glider. [ 10 ] He was also capable of regenerating from Bizarro ripping out his heart and temporarily killing him. [ 18 ]
Summoning : Through his power to open dimensional portals, Trigon was capable of summoning women from other worlds, which he used to mate with, in order to spread his evil across the multiverse. [ 1 ]
Superhuman Reflexes [ 11 ]
Superhuman Strength : Trigon can crush buildings and tear apart streets. [ 10 ]
Telekinesis : Trigon can mentally manipulate the movement of objects. He can even move artificial objects, such as the light constructs of Bunker. He was able to effortlessly fling Superboy aside with a casual thought, [ 11 ] he also did the same to Belial , an incredibly powerful demon in his own rite. [ 2 ]
Telepathy : Trigon is able to gaze into the minds of mortals. He can learn a person's entire history by reading their mind, as he did with Kid Flash and Wonder Girl. He usually reads his opponents' minds to learn how he can manipulate them. [ 11 ]
Abilities
Deception [ 2 ]
Disguise [ 17 ]
Equestrianism [ 11 ]
Intimidation [ 2 ]
Leadership [ 2 ]
Occultism [ 3 ]
Seduction [ 2 ]
Swordsmanship [ 2 ]
Weaponry [ 2 ]
Weaknesses
Vulnerability to Theology : Trigon is vulnerable when on holy grounds. When inside of a church for a short period of time, his body caught on fire. [ 17 ]
Vulnerability to Magic : Trigon is vulnerable to high-levels of magic . The Silent Armor - a magical suit of armor forged by ancient mages, has displayed powerful enough to stalemate Trigon in battle. [ 1 ]
Notes
Despite his demonic features, Trigon is not a demon in the traditional sense and is not a native of Hell , though he did eventually claim a place within its hierarchy. He is still considered as a demon for obvious reasons.
Trigon was created by Marv Wolfman and George Pérez , first appearing  in New Teen Titans #2 . However, Trigon first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in The Phantom Stranger (Volume 4) #1 by Dan Didio and Brent Anderson .
Related
45 Appearances of Trigon (Prime Earth)
23 Images featuring Trigon (Prime Earth)
4 Quotations by or about Trigon (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Trigon (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ 1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 1.11 1.12 Teen Titans (Volume 4) #23.1: Trigon
↑ 2.00 2.01 2.02 2.03 2.04 2.05 2.06 2.07 2.08 2.09 Teen Titans (Volume 4) #20
↑ 3.0 3.1 The Phantom Stranger (Volume 4) #1
↑ Red Hood and the Outlaws #27
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #5
↑ Red Hood: Outlaw #46
↑ DC All In Special #1
↑ Titans (Volume 4) #9
↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 Raven: Daughter of Darkness #6
↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 10.4 10.5 10.6 10.7 Teen Titans (Volume 4) #22
↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 11.3 11.4 11.5 Teen Titans (Volume 4) #19
↑ Tales of the Titans #2
↑ Titans: Beast World: Waller Rising #1
↑ Titans (Volume 4) #10
↑ 15.0 15.1 Raven: Daughter of Darkness #4
↑ 16.0 16.1 Raven: Daughter of Darkness #5
↑ 17.0 17.1 17.2 Lazarus Planet: Legends Reborn #1
↑ Red Hood: Outlaw #47
This character has been primarily an enemy of the Teen Titans , the Titans , or any of the other various Titans incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Titans Villains " category.

Two-Face(disambiguation)
Harvey Dent ( 2011 - Present ) Harvey Dent Appearances • Images • Gallery • Quotes
Harvey Dent ( 2011 - Present )
Two-Face is a supervillain obsessed with duality and the number "two". He is one of the most notable members of Batman 's Rogue's Gallery , as well as being one of the most dangerous and ruthless criminals the caped crusader has faced in his career. Before Two-Face's life of crime, he was Harvey Dent , Gotham's district attorney and a personal friend of playboy Bruce Wayne. The mobster Sal Maroni burned half of his face with a bottle of acid during trial. His psychosis leads him to believe that right and wrong don't matter, as everything is ruled by chance. To prove this, he makes decisions of good or evil based on the flip of a special coin . This makes him highly unpredictable as a criminal mastermind. He has been a member of the Injustice Gang and the Injustice League . There have been several others to use the name Two-Face including the butler Wilkins , the actor Paul Sloane , and the criminal George Blake .
Two-Face was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane , first appearing in Detective Comics #66 ( 1942 ).
Contents
1 Related
2 Multiverse 2.1 The New 52 2.2 Dark Multiverse 2.3 Post-Crisis 2.4 Pre-Crisis 2.5 Elseworlds 2.6 Hypertime 2.7 Alternate Timelines 2.8 Possible Futures
2.1 The New 52
2.2 Dark Multiverse
2.3 Post-Crisis
2.4 Pre-Crisis
2.5 Elseworlds
2.6 Hypertime
2.7 Alternate Timelines
2.8 Possible Futures
3 Other Media 3.1 DC Animated Universe 3.2 Lego Dimensions 3.3 Arrowverse 3.4 Injustice Multiverse 3.5 Tomorrowverse 3.6 Others
3.1 DC Animated Universe
3.2 Lego Dimensions
3.3 Arrowverse
3.4 Injustice Multiverse
3.5 Tomorrowverse
3.6 Others
4 Other Media Titles
5 Comics
6 See Also
Related
Multiverse
The New 52
Dark Multiverse
Post-Crisis
Pre-Crisis
Elseworlds
Hypertime
Alternate Timelines
Possible Futures
Other Media
DC Animated Universe
Lego Dimensions
Arrowverse
Injustice Multiverse
Tomorrowverse
Others
Other Media Titles
Comics
See Also
Comic series featuring Two-Face
Paul Sloane

Vandal Savage (Prime Earth)
Vandal Savage Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Vandar Adg Main Alias Vandal Savage Other Aliases The First Man [ 1 ] · The Eternal [ 1 ] · The Immortal [ 1 ] · Khafre [ 1 ] · Cheops [ 1 ] · Alexander [ 1 ] · Caesar [ 1 ] · General Sha [ 2 ] · Jon Savage · Sir Savage · Vandaa [ 3 ] Relatives Mitch Shelley (brother) [ 4 ] · Kassidy Savage (daughter) · Scandal Savage (daughter) · Angelo Bend (son) Affiliation League of Shadows , Council of Immortals , Totality , Legion of Doom , Gotham City Police Department · Formerly Demon Knights , Injustice Gang [ 5 ] Injustice Society , Secret Society of Super-Villains , Stormwatch , Justice League United Knights Templar , Wolf Tribe Base Of Operations Gotham City · Formerly Camelot · Hall of Doom · China · France Status Alignment Bad Identity Public Identity Marital Status Divorced Occupation Police Commissioner · Formerly Military General · Templar Knight · Tribe Leader Characteristics Gender Male Height 5' 10" Weight 176 lbs (80 kg) Eyes Black Hair Black Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Alfred Bester · Martin Nodell First Appearance Stormwatch Vol 3  #1 ( November, 2011 )
Vandal Savage
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Vandal Savage is an immortal tyrant who has spent centuries searching for the meteorite that made him immortal. Born in the 47th millennium BCE, he has been an influential figure in world history, aiding emperors and conquerors.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origins 1.2 A Life In History 1.3 New 52 1.4 DC Rebirth 1.5 Infinite Frontier 1.6 Dawn of DC 1.7 All In
1.1 Origins
1.2 A Life In History
1.3 New 52
1.4 DC Rebirth
1.5 Infinite Frontier
1.6 Dawn of DC
1.7 All In
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Weapons
3.1 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Origins
Vandar Adg was born in the 47th millennium BCE, in what would one day be the Perigord Noir region of France, as the son of the chief of the Wolf Tribe . One spring, there was a territory dispute between his clan of Neanderthals and a group of Cro-Magnons. However, a bright shooting star caused a halt to the hostilities, which Vandar used to kill the rival chieftain. His father claimed the kill, and when the clan went to see the fallen shooting star, his father claimed that, too. But Vandar felt hurt, and wanted the acclaim he felt was due. He killed his father with the strange glowing rock, even as it wrought fearsome changes on his body, and when his clan tried to punish him for the murder, he killed them too. [ 2 ]
His clan had regarded the meteor as evidence of the benevolence of the Sun, their god, but as Vandar's life extended to a superhuman degree, his religious view would become more complex, and he would enact intricate ritual sacrifices in honor of the deities he thanked for his gift of immortality. [ 6 ]
Others, members of the Bear Tribe , would also find this fallen stone and be granted similar abilities. In time, these tribesmen would become the Immortal Man , the Infinite Woman , the Constant , and the Forever Child , along with one sibling whose name remained unknown.
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
A Life In History
Vandar tried to found empires, but all of his efforts ended in collapse, and this frustrated him.
In 121CE, Vandar heard of the Han Dynasty, one family that had controlled a vast empire for centuries. Wondering what they could teach him, Vandar raised an army and warred against them. His soldiers mangled his name, calling him "General Sha". Vandar was disappointed to discover that the Han rulers were nothing special, but he found a friendship with Zhang Heng, a local astronomer and genius. After he told Zhang his story, Zhang realized that other meteors like Vandar's would pass by the Earth on a predictable timescale, but he refused to give the information. Enraged, Vandar killed Zhang. [ 2 ]
Vandar drifted west, somehow becoming affiliated with the Vandals, even gaining the moniker "Vandal Savage". After the most recent fall of Camelot , Vandar found himself in the town of Little Spring , and wound up accidentally founding the Demon Knights . [ 7 ]
Leaving the Demon Knights, he fought in the crusades among the Knights Templar as "Sir Savage". In 1097CE he met Pandora at Antioch, with whom he shared an instant animosity. [ 8 ] In 1543CE, he journeyed to Rome to meet Niclaus Copernicus, whose work he had been funding in the hopes of finding the meteors that Zhang Heng had predicted. After reviewing Copernicus' notes, he vowed that if the Sun could displace the Earth as the center of the universe, then he would replace God as the center of human morality. When he discovered that Copernicus had neglected the asteroid hunt to write his book, Vandal Savage killed him. [ 2 ]
In the 1880s, he used his own immortal body to carry a plague into Gotham City as part of a plan to harrow the human race and kill millions. Despite the plague turning the poorer neighborhoods into a butcher's workshop, Vandal's plan was stopped by Jonah Hex . [ 9 ]
Vandal Savage aided the Nazis in some capacity, so that in 1941, when another of the meteors Zhang had predicted neared Earth, he was able to commandeer Albrecht Krieger , a man who had gained metahuman powers from the Nazi astronaut program, to drive him to it in a rocket. Though initially blindly following Vandal, Krieger turned the rocket around when he saw how deranged Vandal was. When they crash landed, Vandal kicked Krieger to death. [ 2 ]
Vandal Savage hired a brilliant scientist named Lionel Luthor to help him uncover the secrets of the Multiverse and Perpetua . Eventually, Lionel would become too ambitious and kidnap Martians including a young child and when experimenting on him, alerted the Blackhawk Program and they forced him to brainwash Lionel and abandon his project. [ 10 ]
Just over a decade ago, he was living as Jon Savage in an American suburb when it was time to please his gods. The police regarded the crimes as the work of a serial killer they called "the Vandal". The profiler who finally cracked the case led the squad that took him down, but was tragically killed in the process. Savage was sent to jail for the murders. [ 6 ]
After ten years in prison, he helped his captors find a serial killer who copied his work. In this, he worked alongside his estranged daughter Kassidy . [ 6 ]
In original New 52 continuity, Savage spent years living as a suburban father and moonlighting as a serial killer before being arrested and imprisoned for a decade.  While possible that these events still occurred in later, revised versions of the timeline, his presence in other events makes the history as originally depicted in DC Universe Presents hard to reconcile.  It is likely that they have been excised from the timeline.
New 52
During the attack of the Crime Syndicate , he was rescued from prison by the Secret Society and given a position of seniority. [ 11 ]
In the wake of the Convergence , he was listed as a possible recruit for the Justice League United. [ 12 ]
Aided by several of his children - who had become metahumans in their own right - Vandal Savage began to gather resources to take advantage of the coming of one of his meteors. Key somehow to his process was to oppose Superman at every turn. [ 2 ]
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
DC Rebirth
Vandal Savage put together a team of Neanderthals called the Injustice Gang to find a way to move Earth out of the orbit, using the Moon's magnetic field. But during their meeting, Lex Luthor arrived and beat Vandal to death with a fragment of The Totality ; one of the only things able to permanently kill him, while the League destroyed the Moon itself. Savage was trying, like he did for his whole existence, to avoid Earth from being hit by the Totality, which contained power that would Doom humanity and the Multiverse with it. Vandal's last action was to send his knowledge to Martian Manhunter , so that he could understand that the Totality approaching Earth was the first step towards the end. Still, his plan did not work as Manhunter and the League already decided to let the Totality reach the planet, hoping it would be useful for the regeneration of the Multiverse. Luthor, who killed him, opposed him so that he could not stop what was set in motion with the rupture of the Source Wall . [ 5 ]
When the The Hands restored reality following its collapse during the Metal Wars , Vandal Savage was amongst those resurrected from the dead.  He subsequently joined the Totality, a covert group dedicated to monitoring for multiversal threats.
Infinite Frontier
Dawn of DC
All In
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Unique Physiology : After coming into contact with a meteorite, Savage's physiology was drastically altered. The meteor was partially made up of the chemical compound Dionesium , which has the supernatural ability to revive dead tissue, bringing those who encounter it back to life. [ 13 ] This granted Savage an immortal lifespan, rendering him virtually unkillable, as well as greatly enhanced his physical attributes. [ 2 ] When in close proximity to the meteor that granted him his immortality, Vandal's powers are greatly amplified. [ 14 ] Immortality : Due to exposure to the radiation of the meteorite, Vandal Savage's body was mutated, granting him an ageless lifespan. He is roughly 50,000 years old and almost unkillable. [ 2 ] Regeneration : Savage is capable of regenerating from injuries at an almost instant rate. [ 15 ] After being impaled by a metal pole, he quickly recovered after pulling it out. [ 14 ] He also quickly regenerated half off his face being blown off. [ 16 ] Resurrection : Due to his regenerative abilities, Vandal will quickly heal from any lethal injuries he may suffer. After being bludgeoned to death, he quickly recovered within minutes. [ 17 ] Toxic Immunity : Vandal's regenerative healing provides him with a enhanced immunity to toxins and diseases. When exposed to a dangerous neurotoxin, he was only slowed for a moment before he recovered. [ 18 ] Savage can also carry any disease within his body for a period of time before it eventually dies in him. He once used his own body to carry a plague into Gotham City . [ 9 ] Enhanced Intellect : Vandal's encounter with the meteorite caused his mind to expand and grow, making him much smarter than any normal human. [ 19 ] Enhanced Senses : Vandal's senses are far more heightened than those of a normal human. [ 20 ] Enhanced Sense of Smell [ 20 ] Superhuman Durability : Vandal Savage is capable of resisting tremendous kinetic impact forces that could easily crush or kill a human, without suffering any serious external or internal injuries. He survived crash landing on Earth in an experimental space rocket and being crushed by debris, without any apparent injury. He has also withstood devastating impacts from Green Lantern 's constructs, suffering almost no damage. [ 21 ] He even survived jumping out of an aircraft and falling to the ground, with no apparent injuries. [ 6 ] Energy Resistance [ 22 ] Superhuman Speed : Vandal Savage is able to move at speeds beyond the peak of human potential, moving into the early levels of superhuman condition. When amplified by the meteorite, he was capable of outpacing an explosion on foot. [ 23 ] Superhuman Stamina : Vandal Savage can exert himself for long periods of time, without tiring easily. He was capable of walking from India to Kentucky without stopping. [ 24 ] Superhuman Strength : Vandal Savage's natural strength has been augmented beyond the peak of human potential, moving into the early levels of superhuman condition. He was capable of easily lifting large metallic debris, effortlessly walking through a wooden door, [ 7 ] and beating Captain Nazi to death. [ 2 ] He was able to deal significant damage to a massive sea serpent with a single punch, [ 25 ] and was also strong enough to defeat Pandora in combat. [ 26 ]
Immortality : Due to exposure to the radiation of the meteorite, Vandal Savage's body was mutated, granting him an ageless lifespan. He is roughly 50,000 years old and almost unkillable. [ 2 ] Regeneration : Savage is capable of regenerating from injuries at an almost instant rate. [ 15 ] After being impaled by a metal pole, he quickly recovered after pulling it out. [ 14 ] He also quickly regenerated half off his face being blown off. [ 16 ] Resurrection : Due to his regenerative abilities, Vandal will quickly heal from any lethal injuries he may suffer. After being bludgeoned to death, he quickly recovered within minutes. [ 17 ] Toxic Immunity : Vandal's regenerative healing provides him with a enhanced immunity to toxins and diseases. When exposed to a dangerous neurotoxin, he was only slowed for a moment before he recovered. [ 18 ] Savage can also carry any disease within his body for a period of time before it eventually dies in him. He once used his own body to carry a plague into Gotham City . [ 9 ]
Regeneration : Savage is capable of regenerating from injuries at an almost instant rate. [ 15 ] After being impaled by a metal pole, he quickly recovered after pulling it out. [ 14 ] He also quickly regenerated half off his face being blown off. [ 16 ] Resurrection : Due to his regenerative abilities, Vandal will quickly heal from any lethal injuries he may suffer. After being bludgeoned to death, he quickly recovered within minutes. [ 17 ] Toxic Immunity : Vandal's regenerative healing provides him with a enhanced immunity to toxins and diseases. When exposed to a dangerous neurotoxin, he was only slowed for a moment before he recovered. [ 18 ] Savage can also carry any disease within his body for a period of time before it eventually dies in him. He once used his own body to carry a plague into Gotham City . [ 9 ]
Resurrection : Due to his regenerative abilities, Vandal will quickly heal from any lethal injuries he may suffer. After being bludgeoned to death, he quickly recovered within minutes. [ 17 ]
Toxic Immunity : Vandal's regenerative healing provides him with a enhanced immunity to toxins and diseases. When exposed to a dangerous neurotoxin, he was only slowed for a moment before he recovered. [ 18 ] Savage can also carry any disease within his body for a period of time before it eventually dies in him. He once used his own body to carry a plague into Gotham City . [ 9 ]
Enhanced Intellect : Vandal's encounter with the meteorite caused his mind to expand and grow, making him much smarter than any normal human. [ 19 ]
Enhanced Senses : Vandal's senses are far more heightened than those of a normal human. [ 20 ] Enhanced Sense of Smell [ 20 ]
Enhanced Sense of Smell [ 20 ]
Superhuman Durability : Vandal Savage is capable of resisting tremendous kinetic impact forces that could easily crush or kill a human, without suffering any serious external or internal injuries. He survived crash landing on Earth in an experimental space rocket and being crushed by debris, without any apparent injury. He has also withstood devastating impacts from Green Lantern 's constructs, suffering almost no damage. [ 21 ] He even survived jumping out of an aircraft and falling to the ground, with no apparent injuries. [ 6 ] Energy Resistance [ 22 ]
Energy Resistance [ 22 ]
Superhuman Speed : Vandal Savage is able to move at speeds beyond the peak of human potential, moving into the early levels of superhuman condition. When amplified by the meteorite, he was capable of outpacing an explosion on foot. [ 23 ]
Superhuman Stamina : Vandal Savage can exert himself for long periods of time, without tiring easily. He was capable of walking from India to Kentucky without stopping. [ 24 ]
Superhuman Strength : Vandal Savage's natural strength has been augmented beyond the peak of human potential, moving into the early levels of superhuman condition. He was capable of easily lifting large metallic debris, effortlessly walking through a wooden door, [ 7 ] and beating Captain Nazi to death. [ 2 ] He was able to deal significant damage to a massive sea serpent with a single punch, [ 25 ] and was also strong enough to defeat Pandora in combat. [ 26 ]
Abilities
Deception [ 9 ]
Equestrianism [ 8 ]
Escapology [ 6 ] Lock Picking [ 6 ]
Lock Picking [ 6 ]
Gadgetry [ 14 ]
Genius Level Intellect
Hunting : Vandal is a well adept hunter, stating to have caused the extinction of mammoths himself. [ 27 ]
Historiography
Intimidation [ 26 ]
Leadership : Vandal Savage has led countless armies and legions throughout history. [ 2 ]
Martial Arts : Vandal Savage is amongst the world's finest martial artists, having had millennia to refine his fighting skills. He's stated to have trained with the world's greatest combat masters for centuries. [ 9 ] Dhritishastra : Savage invented a form of combat called "Dhritishastra", an Indian martial art he developed that is so complex, it has been said to take an entire lifetime to learn. [ 28 ]
Dhritishastra : Savage invented a form of combat called "Dhritishastra", an Indian martial art he developed that is so complex, it has been said to take an entire lifetime to learn. [ 28 ]
Military Protocol : In the past, Savage led an army against a war with the Han Dynasty. [ 2 ]
Multilingualism [ 2 ]
Occultism : Vandal had enough mystical knowledge to successfully summon and invoke the god Ares , through a divination ritual. [ 29 ]
Political Science
Seamanship : Savage is capable of steering ad operating a ship. [ 22 ]
Survival
Tactical Analysis [ 2 ]
Theology : As a former Templar Knight, Savage is well versed in theology.
Weaponry : Vandal has displayed mastery in a variety of weaponry, including swords, battle axes, staffs, and more. [ 2 ] Firearms [ 23 ] Stick Fighting : Vandal has displayed mastery of staff based martial arts techniques, capable of using an improvised bo staff with lethal efficiency. [ 14 ] Swordsmanship : Savage is a master swordsman, having honed his skills over his immortal lifespan. He commonly favors a broadsword as his sidearm of choice. [ 8 ] [ 20 ]
Firearms [ 23 ]
Stick Fighting : Vandal has displayed mastery of staff based martial arts techniques, capable of using an improvised bo staff with lethal efficiency. [ 14 ]
Swordsmanship : Savage is a master swordsman, having honed his skills over his immortal lifespan. He commonly favors a broadsword as his sidearm of choice. [ 8 ] [ 20 ]
Weaknesses
Dependency : After the meteorite that granted Vandal his powers was destroyed, it changed form into a giant Lazarus Pit under Gotham City. This caused Vandal's powers to become limited to the vicinity of the city. The further he travels from Gotham, the more his powers fade. [ 30 ]
Paraphernalia
Weapons
Broadsword
Nth Metal Blade
Battle Axe (Formerly)
Notes
Vandal Savage was created by Alfred Bester and Martin Nodell , first appearing  in Green Lantern #10 . However, Vandal Savage first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Stormwatch (Volume 3) #1 by Paul Cornell and Diogenes Neves .
Trivia
Vandal Savage discovered that the Lazarus Resin doesn't originate from Earth , but was actually brought to Earth by the meteorite that turned Savage immortal. Savage recognizes the meteorite's magical properties , but speculated that it could be alien or from a possible future. [ 19 ] The meteorite was partially made up of the chemical compound Dionesium , which has the supernatural ability to revive dead tissue, bringing those who encounter it back to life. This compound is prominent in Ra's al Ghul's Lazarus Pits .
Related
155 Appearances of Vandal Savage (Prime Earth)
55 Images featuring Vandal Savage (Prime Earth)
11 Quotations by or about Vandal Savage (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Vandal Savage (Prime Earth)
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Deathstroke (Volume 4) #25
↑ 2.00 2.01 2.02 2.03 2.04 2.05 2.06 2.07 2.08 2.09 2.10 2.11 2.12 2.13 Superman Annual (Volume 3) #3
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #7
↑ Resurrection Man: Quantum Karma #3
↑ 5.0 5.1 Justice League (Volume 4) #1
↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 DC Universe Presents #10
↑ 7.0 7.1 Demon Knights #1
↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 Trinity of Sin: Pandora #1
↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 All-Star Western (Volume 3) #17
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #17
↑ Trinity of Sin: Pandora #2
↑ DC Sneak Peek: Justice League United (Digital)
↑ Batman (Volume 2) #38
↑ 14.0 14.1 14.2 14.3 Superman/Wonder Woman #27
↑ Trinity of Sin: Pandora #10
↑ Trinity of Sin: Pandora #2
↑ Demon Knights #21
↑ Challenge of the Super Sons #7
↑ 19.0 19.1 Batman (Volume 3) #138
↑ 20.0 20.1 20.2 All-Star Western (Volume 3) #17
↑ Infinite Frontier #2
↑ 22.0 22.1 Demon Knights #9
↑ 23.0 23.1 Action Comics (Volume 2) #50
↑ Swamp Thing (Volume 5) #30
↑ Demon Knights #10
↑ 26.0 26.1 Trinity of Sin: Pandora #12
↑ Demon Knights #13
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #17
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #18
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #139
This character is or was from the Prehistoric Era , thousands of years in the past, including but not limited to the time of Dinosaurs and the dawning of the species of man . These stories occur traditionally before history was formally recorded, and civilization developed completely. This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Prehistoric Characters " category.
This character is or was an officer of, or held a title in the Gotham City Police Department , in any of its various incarnations. This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " GCPD members " and " Police Officers " categories.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
Legion of Doom member This character is or was a member of the Legion of Doom , a team of supervillains called together for the purpose of conquering the world and defeating the Super Friends, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Legion of Doom members " category.
Secret Society of Super-Villains member This character is or was a member of the Secret Society of Super-Villains , a cadre of super-villains who band together to accomplish feats no one super-villain can do alone, in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Secret Society of Super-Villains members " category.
StormWatch member This character is or was a member of StormWatch , a United Nations -sponsored superhero team. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " StormWatch members " category.
Batman Villain(s) This character, team or organization, has been primarily an enemy of the Batman , or the Batman Family as a whole. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Batman Villains ."
This character, team or organization has been primarily an enemy of the Justice Society , in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice Society Villains " category.
This character has been primarily an enemy of Superman in any of his various incarnations, or members of the Superman Family . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Superman Villains category."

Wally West (New Earth)
The Flash Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 1950s- 2011‎ Gallery Real Name Wallace Rudolph "Wally" West Main Alias The Flash Other Aliases Kid Flash , Kid Lantern , Professor Zoom Relatives Ira West (grandfather), Nadine West (grandmother), Rudy West (father), Mary West (mother), Ruolpho Valentino (step-father), Iris West-Allen (adoptive aunt), Barry Allen (uncle/surrogate father), Linda Park-West (wife), Jai West (son), Irey West (daughter), John Fox (descendant) See Allen Family for complete family tree Affiliation Flash Family · Formerly Teen Titans , Justice League of America , Justice League Europe , Justice League Task Force , Justice League Elite , Titans , Justice Society International , Justice League International , Justice Arcana Base Of Operations Keystone City · Formerly JLA Watchtower · Middle Hampton · Brooklyn · Central City · Titans Tower Status Alignment Good Identity Secret Identity Citizenship American Marital Status Married Occupation Adventurer Characteristics Gender Male Height 6' 0" Weight 175 lbs (79 kg) Eyes Green Hair Red Origin Universe Earth-One · New Earth Creators John Broome · Carmine Infantino First Appearance The Flash #110 ( January, 1960 )
The Flash
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 1950s- 2011‎
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
See Allen Family for complete family tree
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Wally West is the third Flash , a speedster from Keystone City who initially fought crime as the original Kid Flash with his uncle Barry Allen , the second Flash. He is a founding member of the Teen Titans and has also been a member of the Justice League of America .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin 1.2 Kid Flash 1.3 The New Flash 1.4 Keystone City 1.5 Establishing his own Legacy 1.6 A New Contender to the Title 1.7 Race Against Time! 1.8 Out of Commission 1.9 Linda's Disappearance 1.10 Chain Lightning 1.11 The Dark Flash 1.12 The Whirlwind Ceremony 1.13 Wonderland 1.14 Blood Will Run 1.15 Retirement and Return 1.16 The Flash: Rebirth 1.17 Blackest Night 1.18 Convergence
1.1 Origin
1.2 Kid Flash
1.3 The New Flash
1.4 Keystone City
1.5 Establishing his own Legacy
1.6 A New Contender to the Title
1.7 Race Against Time!
1.8 Out of Commission
1.9 Linda's Disappearance
1.10 Chain Lightning
1.11 The Dark Flash
1.12 The Whirlwind Ceremony
1.13 Wonderland
1.14 Blood Will Run
1.15 Retirement and Return
1.16 The Flash: Rebirth
1.17 Blackest Night
1.18 Convergence
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment
3.1 Equipment
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related
7 External Links 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Origin
Wally West was born to Rudolph and Mary West in Blue Valley, Nebraska . [ 2 ] As a boy, Wally would often daydream, most notably about being the Flash . He idolized the Flash and was the president and sole member of the Blue Valley Flash Fan Club. His parents thought he was setting himself up for failure and did their best to dampen what they believed to be unrealistic expectations, in rather harsh ways. His father encouraged him to work at the same plant he did, but Wally grew frustrated and hurt (and eventually apathetic) by their lack of faith in his abilities.
At a family reunion, hosted by the Wests, Wally accidentally spilled some soda, inciting his father to yell at him for being so careless. Wally quickly went to his room in tears. Once there, a familiar looking man, who he thought to be his uncle, came in and began to speak to him. The man encouraged Wally not to give up on his dreams, giving him confidence that he would reflect back on for years to come.
Kid Flash
One summer, when he was ten years old, Wally went to Central City to stay with his Aunt Iris , whom he called his best friend. He quickly discovered Central was much more exciting than Blue Valley when he and Iris witnessed the Flash in a fight. The boy, thinking fast, was able to assist his hero, saving the man's life. Soon after, Iris introduced Wally to her fiancé, police scientist Barry Allen. Wally found the man rather dull, except for his friendship with the Flash. While Iris went off to work, Wally was left to spend the afternoon with Barry, who surprised the boy with an introduction to the Flash. [ 2 ]
Barry told Wally to go into the lab in the back of his apartment to meet the Flash. Keeping his dual identity from Wally, he put on the costume and vibrated through the wall to meet him on the other side as the Scarlet Speedster. Delighted to meet his hero, Wally asked the Flash how he got his powers
Kid Flash
and, on hearing about the origin of his hero, wished something like that could happen to him. The Flash dismissed it as a billion-to-one chance. However, it just so happened that the weather that particular day was stormy and, at that moment, lightning struck the cabinet, bathing Wally in the exact same electrified chemicals that created the Flash. [ 2 ] Flash told Wally to keep this a secret, even from Iris. He gave Wally a Flash costume specially tailored to fit him, as well as a ring like his own, and Wally became Kid Flash . [ 3 ]
Kid Flash
The next day, after conquering a crippling fear of fire, Wally apprehended his first criminal, Mister Element . Element had attacked the Art Museum, transmuting many pieces of art into shapeless forms. Element stole the Giardi Atom , an atomic model crafted from gold and jewels. Kid Flash followed Element to the home of Ward Wellington Weaver , owner of another Giardi Atom, where he defeated the villain and turned him into the police. [ 4 ]
The new heroic duo spent the summer working together, the Flash teaching Kid Flash everything he knew about his powers. The only thing Wally could never seem to manage was vibrating through walls, often blowing up the material he went through. The best he was able to manage was leaving a hole shaped like his body in the wall. It was in the midst of a battle with Mirror Master, when he believed the Flash to be dead, that he was able to finally manage the trick. Soon after that battle, Wally's body was wracked with intense pain. The Flash took him to Ira West , Wally's grandfather, as the man was an expert in the Flash's powers. Ira determined that, due to Wally getting his powers so young, his body was rejecting the change, causing immense pain when he used his powers. He had to stop using them or they would kill him. [ 5 ]
He returned to Blue Valley, devastated to be losing Kid Flash and his time with his beloved aunt. Distraught and angry, he ran out into the storm. His father followed him, even climbing up a tree to get him to come back inside. Lightning split the tree. Rudy was knocked out and stuck beneath the fallen tree. Wally, seeing a tornado coming and unable to get the tree off of his father, realized he needed to use his powers to save his father. He ran, pushing past the pain until he broke the proverbial wall and was able to once again use his powers without pain. He broke the tree that trapped Rudy and led him out of the storm. [ 6 ]
While in high school, Wally was a member of the Eta Pi fraternity, along with his good friend, Tommy Elkin . [ 7 ]
The next summer, Barry told Wally his secret identity, [ 8 ] which surprised Wally, who had always thought Barry was kind of boring. Again, lightning struck, causing a matter-transforming machine to transform Wally's costume into a newer, predominantly yellow costume, [ 9 ] the design of which Barry had been toying with in the back of his mind. Wally also joined the Teen Titans . [ 10 ] [ 11 ] Originally, after graduating from high school, Wally was going to go to Taggert University , [ 12 ] until he began to take classes at Central City University , [ 13 ] with hopes of eventually getting a doctorate in physics.
As Barry's sidekick, Wally met Hal Jordan , then Green Lantern of Earth, and became Jordan's friend, just as Jordan had been Barry's friend.
Because Wally had been struck by lightning and affected by the charged chemicals when he was a kid, rather than a full grown man, it affected his body differently than it had Barry's. Although he was able to run through the crippling pain he called "hitting the wall" the summer after he got his powers when adolescence hit, it came back with a vengeance, effectively propelling Wally to quit his super-heroic career.
The New Flash
Wally becomes the new Flash .
During the Crisis on Infinite Earths after Barry Allen sacrificed his life to destroy the Anti-Monitor's antimatter cannon, an antimatter ray fired by the Anti-Monitor hit Wally full force. While it knocked his speed down to that of sound, it also removed the malady that caused him intense pain. Wally took Barry's uniform and declared himself the Flash, just until Barry returned. However, the rest of the population did not share Wally's feeling that Barry was still alive, and they also did not appreciate Wally's attempts at filling Barry's boots. After being publicly embarrassed in a fight with Doctor Alchemy , Green Lantern declared that he would protect Central City. For about a week, Wally donned his Kid Flash costume again. However, during the next fight with Doctor Alchemy, it finally dawned on him that Barry was not coming back. He saved Green Lantern and Jay Garrick from Doctor Alchemy. Finally, he was accepted as the Flash. [ 4 ]
After accepting that Barry was dead, Wally still had to overcome his anger of feeling abandoned and forced into a role he did not feel ready for. Coupled with the emotional pain of what had happened with Raven , anger somehow overcame all the values that Barry had taught him, and he was rather rude and childish for a while. All these mental blocks also slowed him down, sometimes to the point where he lost his speed entirely. He also manifested the need to consume large quantities of food after using his powers, another product of his psychological condition.
Wally won six and a half million dollars in the lottery. He was able to leave his small apartment in Brooklyn and buy a mansion on Long Island. He asked Frances Kane to live with him, and she accepted, for a short while. After two weeks, she left, saying they were moving too fast. Soon afterward, Wally invited nutritionist Tina McGee to live with him, even though she was eleven years his senior and not divorced but only separated from her husband. Wally's mother, Mary, also came to live with him, causing tension between the two women.
After Tina left so that she could go back to her husband, Wally lost all of his money in the stock market and had to move into a new apartment. Here, he befriended his neighbor, Mason Trollbridge . He also began seeing Connie Noleski , a Texan model who he had actually been living with for a short time before Tina.
After the alien invasion of Earth, during which Wally fought Durlans in Cuba, the aliens set off a gene bomb that robbed Wally of his superspeed. His friends, Jerry and Tina McGee, set up a device to restore his speed. It sprayed him with the chemicals that had gifted Barry and himself with superspeed while sending an electrical charge through him. However, with his new speed, Wally burned a deep trench across America, stretching from New York all the way to New Mexico. His aura, which had previously served as an energy collector, began to feed directly on him, starving him and affecting his brain, and also sending his consciousness to another energy level. He grew long spines around his body, and stalked around Swainsville, New Mexico , confused and looking for food, contributing to the citizens' belief in a local myth, the Porcupine Man . Luckily, Chunk was able to restore his essence to this dimension by using his singularity powers. [ 14 ] Afterwards, Mason Trollbridge was able to pluck the spines out of his body.
Keystone City
Wally moved to Keystone City after Joan Garrick 's suggestion. [ 15 ] Mason joined him so they could share rent.
In Keystone, he started to date Linda Park , a reporter he had met initially during the Porcupine Man incident. [ citation needed ]
Shortly after this, Barry Allen seemingly returned from the dead. [ 16 ] Wally remained skeptical about this resurrection due to Barry's odd attitude. [ 17 ] When Barry left Wally to die, Wally gave up on the Flash identity. [ 18 ] However, Wally soon learned that Barry had been impersonated by Eobard Thawne, better known as Professor Zoom , the Reverse-Flash. With the help of Jay, Johnny Quick and Max Mercury , Zoom was defeated. [ 19 ]
Next, Wally was sued for superhero negligence. After the trial, Wally tried to increase his own speed, failing miserably and learning that he could not be everywhere, nor save everyone. [ citation needed ]
Establishing his own Legacy
Aunt Iris was revealed to be alive and soon she returned from the future along with Bart Allen, Barry Allen's grandson so Wally could help him control his speed. After an extensive training, Bart took up the speedster gig as the costumed hero Impulse . [ citation needed ]
When Hal Jordan seemingly went mad after the destruction of his former home, Coast City, and became Parallax , he was replaced as Green Lantern by Kyle Rayner , who took his place in the Justice League of America. Flash had some trouble adapting himself to the new Green Lantern. The two eventually overcame their differences and became very close friends, like their predecessors were. [ citation needed ]
During Zero Hour , Wally was seemingly killed while trying to help Rip Hunter and Waverider save the 64th Century and the timestream itself from waves of destructive entropy. [ 20 ] He had actually being flung backward through time. Wally materialized at the West Family Reunion and turned out to be the "uncle" that gave his past self that pep talk. He soon returned to his proper time, but not until he had seen one more vision, a vision of Linda's apparent fate at the hands of Kobra , as well as his own death. [ 21 ]
Wally tried to take out Kobra as soon as possible, hoping that he could stop the tragedy. Unfortunately, Bart ruined his plans against Kobra by accident and Wally started to turn into a being of pure energy. This state subsided, but it became a recurring symptom. [ citation needed ] Worried about his health, Flash asked Jesse Quick to take over the mantle of Flash for him, should he die. This turned out to be nothing but a ploy to make Bart jealous, in hopes that he would get more serious about his legacy. [ 22 ]
However, the tragedy was not averted and Wally was forced to enter the Speed Force, where he traded Linda's fate for what he thought would be his. However, he managed to return from the Speed Force and quickly defeated Kobra. This trip beyond the light gave Wally the power to tap directly into the Speed Force itself which granted new abilities, which consisted on projecting the speed force onto objects and many others. [ 23 ]
A New Contender to the Title
Soon, a new contender to the title of "fastest man alive" made himself known-- Savitar . He had found a way to siphon energy from the Speed Force, cutting off its access to several speedsters, including Jay Garrick, Jesse Quick, Johnny Quick and Bart Allen; this power drain also resulted in the death of Kapitalist Kouriers speedster/delivery man Cassiopeia . [ 24 ]
Wally became aware of the power drain among the other speedsters and he learned about Savitar from a group of ninjas that were sent to attack him. When the speedsters regrouped, they met Jenny Ognats who was a cousin to both Bart and Wally and a descendant of Barry Allen. [ 25 ]
Linda managed to learn the background history of Savitar, including the fact that he attacked Johnny Quick in his quest to find the speed force. After learning this information, Wally was ready to fight Savitar. Jenni offered her help, but due to her inexperience, she was asked to give her Legion Flight Ring to Jesse Quick, who was far more experienced and would be more helpful to Wally.
Wally and Jesse arrived at Savitar's castle and first, they had to fight Lady Savitar. Jesse decided to take on Lady Savitar while Flash confronted Savitar. Jesse managed to destroy the transformer in which the speed force had been contained and the speed powers returned to all the speedsters. With their powers restored, Jay, Max, Johnny Quick and Impulse caught up with Wally and Jesse and proceeded to battle Savitar's army. Knowing that the battle was lost, Savitar threatened Linda and Flash raced to stop him from hurting her. Savitar was unstoppable and Flash could barely keep up with him. During the chase, Jenni talked to Wally and provided the only solution. Flash followed Jenni's advice and he used the Speed Force to contain Savitar, who was pulled into the Speed Force and merged with it. In the aftermath, not wanting the Speed Force to absorb him as well, Wally concentrated on finding his way home... and vanished... [ 26 ]
Race Against Time!
Wally couldn't find his way home and ended up bouncing through time. The first place Wally wound up on his journey through time was the 64th Century, where the citizens of that era worshiped the Flash and wanted to be just like him. [ 27 ] After leaving that place, he next appeared in the mid-20th Century, where he met his twin first cousins, Don and Dawn Allen (Barry and Iris' kids) and encountered Earthgov's rampant xenophobia. [ 28 ] After helping them reclaim their legacy and partially siphoning their energies, Wally time-jumped once again, this time landing in the 27th Century, where he met the Flash of that era, John Fox . Teaming up with Fox, they stopped the villain Chronos, but as Wally started to fade again, Fox told him the name he had forgotten: Linda. Armed with that knowledge, Wally attempted one last time-jump back to the 20th Century; but John, knowing that Wally would not make it back in time to prevent a great disaster, volunteered to jump back to the 20th Century himself to fill Wally's boots. John arrived first, meeting Linda and Piper , facing off against Chillblaine . He fell in love with Linda; causing Linda's love to be distracted by John, which prevented Wally from returning. [ citation needed ]
However, after realizing that John lied about his reason for coming to the 20th Century and that he could not stand up to the super heroic pressures that Wally normally faced, Linda told him that she would always love Wally, no matter what. Somehow sensing this, Wally emerged from the Speed Force--only to realize he was too late; Linda had been flash-frozen in an attempted second Ice Age by Polaris and Abra Kadabra. However, Wally realized that Linda was somehow still alive and he acquired some tech to keep Linda safe. After this Wally and John dropped her off at S.T.A.R. Labs in the hopes of having Doctor Tina McGee reverse her condition. Fox and Wally went looking for Polaris and Abra Kadabra in order to reverse the damage caused. The two heroes managed to defeat them and reversed the Ice Age they created, but somehow Linda was still frozen solid. At that moment, appearing from a time portal was Speed Metal, on the search for the "fugitive", John Fox. [ 29 ] Wally, allowed Speed Metal to take Fox away, but after a change of heart, he sped off to rescue John. Once free from Speed Metal, Fox suggested Wally to use the Speed Force on Linda. As a result, Linda's molecules were sped up and she was successfully saved. [ citation needed ]
Out of Commission
Soon a new foe called The Suit showed up in Keystone, looking to kill the Flash. Wally performed a time feat which allowed him to survive the first encounter with Suit, but soon an explosion caused by the criminal broke both of Wally's legs. [ 30 ] Confined to a wheelchair, Wally came up with the idea of having Max, Jay and Impulse pretend to be him and confuse The Suit. Wally then tried to focus his energy and made himself a suit made out of pure Speed Force. [ 31 ] Clad in the new, golden Speed Force suit, Wally confronted The Suit, saved Max Mercury, pulling him out of The Suit and when The Suit returned pulled Wally inside him, Wally started to vibrate in order to atomize The Suit, whose particles became one with the Speed Force. [ 32 ]
Right after this, Wally was attacked by the Mirror Master , who transported Flash into a mirror world. After a series of weird encounters, Wally finally caught the Mirror Master within his speed-stream and hauled him off to prison. [ 33 ]
Linda's Disappearance
During a brush with the Black Flash , who had apparently claimed the life of Linda, Wally saved her from the Speed Force. He proposed to her, and they were almost married shortly thereafter, but she then disappeared off the face of the earth, and no one, not even Wally, remembered her.
Chain Lightning
Wally then got caught up in an adventure spanning through different eras. Malcolm Thawne , Barry Allen's twin brother, reappeared, beginning the Allen-Thawne feud. Barry's death during the Crisis appeared to have cheated Malcolm out of his dreams of revenge on his brother. Instead, Malcolm focused on Allen's descendants traveling through time in a bid to exterminate them, starting with Wally West. Under the identity of Cobalt Blue, Malcolm ignited a family feud that endured for a millennium.
The feud came to a head in the late 30th Century, where Barry Allen was living with his wife Iris. Wally West arrived to try and protect his uncle. Flashes of all eras between the 20th and 30th centuries arrived soon after, all under the control of Thawnes' spirit due to them all carrying a shard of the original Cobalt Blue gem. In the end, Wally West ended the menace of Cobalt Blue by running so fast that he skirted the edge of the Speed Force. Its power poured into the gem, and Thawne's spirit (and the gem itself) overloaded from the excess energy. Wally then vanished into the Speed Force. At that same moment, a new, mysterious Flash appeared in Keystone City...
The Dark Flash
Linda's disappearance was caused by a mysterious man who had a deep hatred for the Flash; he abducted her and kept her imprisoned within Limbo. Upon her escape, Linda realized she was not in the right world. [ 34 ] Linda next encountered this world's Pied Piper, who told her to run from "Wally," as he was dangerous.
Linda ran toward a now-abandoned Flash Museum, where she found a memorial statue dedicated to her dimensional counterpart (named Linda Kiyo Park), "who sacrificed her life to save Keystone City from the villain Kobra." [ 35 ] Using his link to Linda, Wally located her and emerged from the Speed Force in this strange world. A battle ensued between Wally and Walter, where they were evenly matched. [ 36 ] During the fight, Abra Kadabra appeared and trapped both Wally and Walter. Kadabra explained that he tried to break the bond that draws Wally back to this dimension by casting a spell to make everyone forget that Linda existed and hold her outside of time, but she escaped, landing in that alternate Keystone and drew Wally to her once again. To defeat Kadabra, Wally temporarily merged his physical essence with Walter's, gaining greater speed and learning a few new skills; from this merging, Walter also finally came to terms with not being able to save his Linda from death. [ 37 ]
Kadabra, however, faked his defeat at their hands and seemingly discorporated Wally and Linda's essences, sending them through countless alternate dimensions until they found their home dimension, thanks to Bart. [ 38 ] Wally and Linda finally made it back to their Keystone City, but Linda was still forgotten from everyone's minds. Wally then decided to impersonate the Reverse-Flash in order to get Kadabra to cast back his spell on Linda. [ 39 ] After the spell was complete, Wally revealed his true identity and the final battle between Wally, Walter and Abra Kadabra ensued. Kadabra tried to use the same spell again, but it backfired and he was left with amnesia. [ citation needed ]
The Whirlwind Ceremony
Wally and Linda started the preparations for their wedding and after a serious discussion, they finally got married. With Nightwing serving as Wally's best man, Wally and Linda became Mister and Mrs. West. [ 40 ] During their honeymoon, Wally and Linda were attacked by Kobra and also by Lady Flash. Both threats were easily neutralized by Flash and Linda. [ 41 ]
Eventually, Wally met Linda's fellow reporter, Billy Batson . When there was a sudden emergency, Wally suited-up while Billy transformed into Captain Marvel and they worked together to avert the crisis. Soon, Wally, Billy and Linda located the man most likely responsible for the "accident": Felix Faust . Flash and Billy teamed up again to stop Faust and afterward, Wally and Linda bid Billy farewell as he boarded a train headed for Fawcett City , Indiana. [ 42 ]
After the Wests received a bomb as part of their wedding presents, Wally investigated and learned that someone has targeted members of the JLA. After learning the information about the upcoming attacks, Flash saved Superman , Batman , Green Lantern and finally Aquaman from the attacks. Flash soon learned that the enemy threatening him and his allies was none other than the Turtle , the slowest man alive. Flash managed to defeat the villain without any trouble and he soon returned home to spend the night with his lovely wife. [ 43 ]
Wonderland
After this, Wally found himself in a strange world in which he was a normal human, a criminal and where Aquaman has been dead for 10 years. He was soon arrested by none other than Mick Rory (Heatwave). Wally woke from a nightmare and met a woman named Fiona , who told him she was the resident social worker for the police department. After a quick interrogation, Fiona left Wally alone in his cell and after a few seconds, Wally heard a familiar voice near his cell. When he turned to the window, he saw Barry Allen. Wally tried to escape prison, but his efforts were futile. At that moment, Officer Rory entered the room, but he was attacked by Captain Cold . [ 44 ]
Cold was the only person that remembered and recognized Wally. They soon deduced that they were trapped in an alternate dimension. When Wally and Cold tried to contact the Jay Garrick from this dimension, they learned that in this world, there never was a Flash and the Speed Force never existed. [ citation needed ] They also learned that most of humanity's history was different and that the absence of The Flash, caused the death of many people, including the members of the Justice Society, Justice League, Teen Titans and more. Wally then noticed that every time Cold held his freeze gun, it was in his left hand, not his right as usual. Wally then truly realized they were not in an alternate dimension but in a mirror dimension. [ 45 ] Flash finally confronted the Mirror Master, who explained that he and Cold tried to imprison Wally on this mirror world without a Flash, but somehow they both were pulled inside as well.
Mirror Master explains that somehow they were double-crossed by another criminal, but now that they have found the truth, they must work together to get back to their own world. Cold, Mirror Master and Flash tried to find a way back, but they were stopped by Plunder . Flash, Captain Cold and Mirror Master ran into "Mirror Master's Mirror Maze", trying to outrun Plunder's laser bursts. Preparing to defend himself, McCulloch unsheathed his mirror gun, trying to absorb Plunder's lasers--unfortunately, the lasers activated his gun, creating evil mirror duplicates of Flash, Captain Cold and Mirror Master. [ 46 ]
During the fight, Captain Cold and Mirror Master were defeated, leaving Wally to fight alone against Plunder. Using every resource in the environment, Wally managed to stall Plunder long enough to escape the twisted mirror dimension along with Cold and Mirror Master. Back in the real world, Wally's powers fully returned. Wally and the Rogues soon resumed their rivalry, but they were shocked to see that Keystone City was somehow gone. [ 47 ] Standing on the outskirts of where Keystone City used to be, McCulloch realized that the city was not destroyed, but rather "taken".
Blood Will Run
Main article: The Flash: Blood Will Run
Wally tried to lead a normal life with Linda, but Flash was always needed and soon he had to fight alongside two former love interests: Magenta and Julie Jackum. When the situation was under control, Magenta was arrested for her past crimes and Wally didn't have a chance to talk with any of them about their past. Later that day, Julie was murdered and she was unable to tell Wally about her child, Josh. [ 48 ] [ 49 ]
Cicada and his Cult
Later, Wally learned of a massive ongoing murdering crusade against all the people that he has ever saved and that Julie was also part of the hit list. Saddened by Julie's passing, Wally tried to speak with Magenta to clear things between them, but she lost her mind and attacked Wally, who finally realized she had been possessed. [ 50 ] Magenta managed to defeat Wally and took him to an underground temple, where he was stabbed in the chest by Cicada , as he pretended to revive his wife using Wally's life force. [ 51 ] Flash managed to break free by exposing Magenta to his speed energy and once free, he proceeded to disarm the members of the cult and used the speed force energy to defeat Cicada. Wally then rejoined Linda and they decided to move back to downtown Keystone City after their house was blown to pieces. [ 49 ]
After moving to their new apartment, Wally is forced to leave Linda once again in order to confront a new monster by the name of Tar Pit . Flash manages to get the situation under control, but during the fight, he allowed Captain Cold to escape unnoticed. [ 52 ] Right after this, Wally contained a virus outbreak from Iron Heights with help from the Piper and Jay. [ 53 ]
Days later, after Julie's funeral, the Weather Wizard appeared and created havoc in order to keep Flash busy while he revealed himself as Josh's father. [ 54 ] Flash managed to defeat the Weather Wizard, destroyed the Weather Wand and learned that the Rogues have been working together in secrecy. [ 55 ] Around this time, Flash was introduced to Hunter Zolomon , the newest member of the KCPD and partner of Detective Morillo and Officer Chyre. [ 56 ]
Linda later gave birth to twins, Iris and Jai West .
Retirement and Return
During what has become known as Infinite Crisis , Kid Flash , Barry, Max and Johnny, were able to temporarily subdue Superboy-Prime by sending him to the Speed Force and Wally once he had gotten his family followed them (which later turned out to be an alternate Earth). He and the other speedsters, along with Linda and the twins, were sent to an alternate Earth, home of another Jay Garrick operating as the Flash. They decided to absorb the Speed Force into Bart and send him home to battle Superboy-Prime.
Content with passing the Flash mantle on to Bart, Wally and Linda decided to raise their children on the alien world Savoth , where the residents were longtime friends of the Flashes. However, shortly after their arrival, the twins began to age very rapidly. The Savothians, who were advanced scholars of velocibiology , at first did not agree to help the Wests, but finally relented and agreed to train Linda to deal with the children's rapid aging. [ 57 ]
Wally and his family were brought back to Earth by seven members of the Legion of Super-Heroes using lightning rod devices. When Wally came back, he indirectly took away Bart's portion of the Speed Force, and with the return of Wally West, the Speed Force also returned as he mainlined it and was practically one with it. He was then invited to join the newly reformed Justice League of America . [ 58 ] Wally and Linda moved back to Keystone City. Since they were afraid the twins could, at any time, age rapidly, possibly even to old age and death, they decided to let Iris and Jai, who had developed their own superspeed-related abilities, live their lives to the fullest by helping their father fight crime. [ 59 ] Wally later found out that the cause of his children's rapid aging was not because of the Speed Force, but because of the Black Flash. He then absorbed the Speed Force fragments from his children and defeated the Black Flash, thus caused Jai and Iris to revert to their actual age.
Not long after, Wally found himself once again pulling a double-shift for two separate teams. He reunited with his old allies the Titans in order to face the pressing threat of Trigon. [ 60 ]
The Flash: Rebirth
When Orion, was murdered, Wally and Jay investigated to find the Secret Society of Super Villains' hideout and discovered Metron's chair. They figured out that the bullet that had killed Orion had been sent through time thanks to the chair which acted as a gateway. Suddenly, a light filled the room and from within the portal of the chair came Wally's former mentor and idol, Barry Allen. Barry was chasing the bullet that killed Orion through time but was being pursued by Black Racer. Wally and Jay joined him in the race to save Orion's life but they were too late, Orion was killed. Jay was forced to abandon the chase due to not being able to keep up but Wally and Barry tried to escape the Black Racer, ending up in the near future where the world had been taken over by the Evil Gods thanks to the Anti-Life Equation. They visited Wally's Aunt Iris' house to find even she had been corrupted by Anti-Life. After freeing her from the Equation, Barry and Wally tried to come up with a plan to stop Darkseid, who had now taken over the world. [ 61 ] They once again ran, the Black Racer catching up with them, and went into a full sprint for Darkseid. The Black Racer was gaining on them as they approached Darkseid, who was in the middle of battling Superman with his followers. The Flashes saved Superman from the followers' omega beams and when they managed to get to Darkseid, they vibrated through him, causing the Black Racer to crash into him, severely wounding the Evil God. After Darkseid was defeated, Barry and Wally reunited with the rest of their friends and family. Superman assembled Wally along with both generations of the Titans, to reveal that Bart Allen and Superboy had been resurrected in the future and brought back to the present. Wally could not be more happy to see his cousin back.
Both the superhero community and the public learned of Barry and Bart's return, assembling parades and celebrations for all of the Flashes. Wally was with the other Titans at their tower in New York, putting together a welcome back party for Barry. He talked with them about what it was like being mentored by someone like Barry while also keeping Jai and Iris, who he had brought along, in line. Wally and his kids all received a huge electrical shock caused by the Speed Force after Barry had accidentally killed Savitar.
All of the speedsters felt it, except for Barry and Wally called Barry and asked for them to meet up. They were running together, discussing what had happened when they discovered that the Black Flash was now dead. Soon after, they were ambushed by one of Savitar's followers and when Barry touched her, she turned to dust. Barry suddenly transformed in front of Wally's eyes, into the new Black Flash. Wally called the Justice League and the Justice Society for help and they encased Barry in a machine that would remove his connection from the Speed Force. Iris showed up to comfort Barry but when his Black Flash powers went berserk, he unleashed a blast of energy. Wally managed to grab his Aunt Iris and rescue her from the blast. He then witnessed Hal Jordan take Barry away from the other speedsters. Superman and the other Justice Leaguers returned to the speedsters and told them of Barry running back into the Speed Force to protect them. Wally refused to allow Barry to just go after only having been back for a short time.
Wally decided to run into the Speed Force himself to rescue Barry. He also promised Bart that he would try to get Max and Johnny back as well. Jay questioned Wally about his idea, telling him that he may not come out but Wally explained that he had been in the Speed Force before and that as long as he has Linda, he would be able to find his way back as he did when he first was sucked into the Speed Force during his battle with Kobra. Wally ran as fast as he could, memories of his past passing by him. He ran deeper and deeper into the Speed Force which was now tainted by the crimson lightning of the Negative Speed Force.
After a long run, Wally managed to find Barry and Max but Johnny had already been killed. Barry told him that Eobard Thawne, the original Reverse-Flash, had returned and that he was the one behind all of this. Wally took Barry's hand and the trio of speedsters forced themselves out of the Speed Force. In a flash of lightning, Wally reappeared on Earth to find Thawne fighting Jay and Bart. Wally joined in on the charge to stop the Reverse-Flash. The speedsters ganged up on Thawne, seemingly having the upper hand. Wally, however, did not realize the damage Thawne had done to his children and Iris was forced to take Jai's connection to the Speed Force due to the connection between them killing them both. Liberty Belle arrived and took Iris, who now had super speed like her father, to fight the Reverse-Flash.
They overwhelmed Thawne and Wally had the idea to regenerate their suits as well as giving them a second wind of energy. They all gathered next to Wally who had learned the trick of creating a suit out of the Speed Force rather than keeping it in the ring. They all imagined their suits in their heads and then Wally helped them all regenerate their suits. However, as the lightning cleared, Wally was donned in a modified suit, with white pupils and having a much darker color scheme, similar to one he wore during his days when he first learned of the Speed Force. Wally aided Barry in attacking Thawne before the Reverse-Flash took Barry away from the other speedsters, making him fight on his own.
Wally managed to catch up to Barry and helped him journey into the past to stop Reverse-Flash from killing Iris. They managed to stop him from hurting Iris and tried to bring him back to the future. During the fight, Thawne revealed to Wally that Jai would grow up to destroy him.
Blackest Night
Main article: Blackest Night
Wally races across the globe with Barry and Bart to pass to every hero around the world Barry's message of the rise the Black Lantern Corps and their universal invasion. He later arrives at Coast City with Bart, Justice League and the Teen Titans to aid Barry in taking a stand against Nekron , the black personification of Death and Lord of the Black Lanterns. [ 62 ] [ 63 ]
Convergence
While running with Iris and Jai, Wally is taken into Convergence with Gotham by Brainiac and Telos and is trapped for a year without his powers. After regaining his powers, he attempts to help the Justice Riders, but they were already defeated by Flashpoint Hawkman and Hawkgirl. [ 64 ] He later fights Flashpoint Wonder Woman with help from his kids and Fastback . They manage to defeat her and her army. [ 65 ] He later allies with the Earth-2 Justice League to fight Deimos. [ 66 ]
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Speed Force Conduit : After he was struck by a bolt of lightning and doused in chemicals, Wally gained a mainline-connection to the Speed Force , meaning he cannot be cut off from its energy. [ 25 ] Wally is the fastest of all Flashes, perhaps rivaled only by his mentor, Barry Allen. Wally is arguably the fastest person that has ever existed. [ 67 ] He is fast enough to easily break all the barriers and even enter the Speed Force. Wally has, on several occasions, traveled much faster than light and entered and exited the Speed Force by his own volition. The Flash is considered to be one of the most formidable and powerful meta-humans on the planet. Wally is considered a living avatar and the living embodiment of the fabled Speed Force. [ 68 ] [ 69 ] Superhuman Speed : Wally West is by far the fastest being on the planet. According to Max Mercury he's the fastest man to have ever existed. [ 67 ] Wally can move faster than thought and with the aid of other JLA members, came up with a plan within 1 second. [ 70 ] He can move so fast, that he can appear in two places at once. [ 71 ] [ 72 ] Wally managed to move so fast that time apparently appeared to be frozen around him. [ 15 ] [ 70 ] Wally's even fast enough to move when time is frozen at a standstill. [ 73 ] By reciting Johnny Quick's Speed Force Formula, Wally can tap into the Speed Force in a different way, allowing him to move far beyond light-speeds with no effort, making it appear as if time was frozen. [ 74 ] Wally has outran the explosion of Krypton and even raced Zeta-Beams . [ 75 ] He can even move in a form of stay of time where everything around was frozen in place for a while, when he got his powers back. [ 76 ] It's stated that Wally can move faster than thought. [ 77 ] Superhuman Agility : Wally's agility, balance and bodily coordination are heightened to levels greater than any human being. [ 78 ] He is able to easily maneuver on falling debris and objects, while moving at super-speed. [ 79 ] Superhuman Stamina : The Flash possesses vast superhuman endurance that is nearly inexhaustible. Wally has ran for days without rest and food. [ 80 ] He was able to run non-stop for over 10 days straight without tiring, through time and space across all of existence, at speeds far beyond light. [ 81 ] During temperatures of minus 35 in Keystone City, Wally spent his time patrolling and protecting the city, at the edge of exhaustion. [ 82 ] He even managed to endure 10 days of torture, by the efforts of the Turtle and the Turtle Man . [ 83 ] Superhuman Reflexes : Wally's reaction time is enhanced to levels far greater than any normal human being. He is able to easily perceive the movements of other speedsters, and react to danger and events. [ 79 ] Superhuman Strength : The Flash can use his speed to boast his natural strength to levels superior than the average human being. He is strong enough to lift 800lbs with no sign of physical strain, even while running with it. [ 84 ] He has single-handedly reconstructed several buildings, moved heavy beams and girders into place, [ 67 ] lifted and carried pieces of concrete from stone columns over his head, [ 85 ] and even pushed back and kicked a giant metal ball going at high speed, preventing it from doing damage to the city. [ 86 ] As Kid Flash, he managed to carry a large gorilla a significant distance, [ 87 ] as well as pulled his dad's car from a police station all the way back his house. [ 88 ] Wally has pushed and thrown Girder into a river. [ 89 ] Both Barry and Wally each pushed a heavy steel cable drum, to use to wrap up a giant. [ 8 ] Speed Force Aura : The Flash's body is surrounded by what he calls his "Speed Force aura". This aura protects him and anyone who is running with him or carried by him, from the effects of using his speed. This includes friction and airborne particulate matter. Wally can sync his aura with his children, giving him the ability to pull them alongside him with a thought. [ 90 ] Wally has also used his Speed Force aura to contain a bomb from detonating, as his aura allowed him to slow down the nitric and sulfuric reactions in the explosive. [ 91 ] Superhuman Durability : Due to his body being surrounded by his protective "Speed Force aura", Wally's durability is heightened to immense levels. It protects him from injury from high-speed impacts such as punches he delivers and receives from his opponents. Aerokinesis : By running in a circle at a certain speed, Flash is able to create a vortex with a variety of effects. One effect is pulling the air away from the center in order to suffocate an enemy. Another effect is levitating whoever and whatever was in the center. Also, able to send anyone or anything into another dimension when running around them. Some other effects are acting as barriers to movement or funnels for toxic gases. The Flash also can spin his arms to create directed funnels of hurricane speed air that can knock down barriers or reduce the speed of a falling object. When putting out forest fires, what the Flash does when he runs around the perimeter is create a pocket tornado. The updraft lowers the temperature inside the funnel and raises the fire off the ground which takes away its fuel source. Flight : By spinning like a helicopter, he can even perform a limited kind of flight. [ citation needed ] Decelerated Aging : Along with every speedster that draws from the speed force, the loved ones of the speedsters will gain eternal youth like Jay's wife and Barry's wife ages have shown. [ 92 ] Dimensional Travel : Wally West has shown to be able to traverse dimensions with his own powers, unlike Barry Allen, and the other speedsters. However, Wally now accelerates to the point that he is skirting the very edge of the Speed Force dimension or even entering it. In order to enter the Speed Force dimension, he must exceed light speed, which he can easily and instantly do. Wally managed to vibrate fast enough to enter the world of Korydon, that existed in another dimension. [ 93 ] After he regained his memory of being Kid Flash, he and Barry pierced the dimensional barrier to the world of Ikora. [ 94 ] [ 95 ] [ 96 ] [ 97 ] [ 98 ] [ 99 ] Electrokinesis : Wally can generate and manipulate the electrical energy that he draws from the Speed Force. This Speed Force lightning emanates off of him whenever he uses his powers, as a side-effect of his muscles processing the Speed Force. [ 49 ] Wally has immense control over the energy, to the extent that he was able to tap into each of his children's energy to remove the Speed Force's death aspect from within them. [ 90 ] Electromagnetism : Due to his electrical abilities, Wally is able to manipulate magnetism to some extent. [ 100 ] He was able to latch onto a large truck with his Speed Force energy, and use his momentum to guide it. [ 101 ] Energy Construct Creation : Wally discovered if he concentrated, his Speed Force energy could be used to create solid constructs, which he commonly used to compose his Flash costume. The first time he used this ability he created a solid armor, enabling him to run despite having broken legs. [ 31 ] The suit is able to automatically adapt it's shape as needed, as well as drain speed from victims. [ 31 ] Wally describes these suit constructs as "alien technology from the Speed Force dimension", and "a machine you can wear". [ 31 ] Later examples included sealing up the openings of his costume against disease, creating pockets for holding things, and even creating Speed Force suits for the entire Flash Family at once. [ 92 ] He was also able to construct a vibrational prison of Speed Force energy to hold enemies. [ 102 ] Energy Projection : Wally is able to project his electrical Speed Force energy in certain cases, such as when he is giving momentum to objects. [ 67 ] Energy Transference : Wally has used his Speed Force lightning to amplify Magenta 's magnetic abilities by a significant amount. [ 49 ] Energy Transformation : When approaching the threshold of light speed, Wally generates so much energy that he essentially becomes pure Speed Force energy. [ 103 ] Wally can even create a suit out of pure Speed Force energy around his entire body. [ 104 ] [ 105 ] Negate Anti-Life Equation : Wally is capable of negating the effects of Darkseid's Anti-Life Equation , through physical contact of his Speed Force energy. [ 106 ] Enhanced Mental Process : The Flash's mental abilities are also increased in speed, simple computations can be done at lightning speeds, and his ability to perform normal feats at increased speeds has allowed him to build hundreds of force field generators in a matter of minutes, move sandbags to cover a beach or search an entire area for something as small as a paper clip. Wally can also read at super-speed, but rarely takes advantage of this ability to learn at increased speeds, although Jay Garrick has done so and has become a jack of all trades in several disciplines and languages. Wally managed to keep track of and process all the computers in the Monitor Womb at the JLA Watchtower, when mounting Rescue and Containment OPs all across the planet; when the Earth the temporarily lost it's gravity. [ 107 ] He was also shown capable of pushing back the infinite possibilities and desires of the Id, thus using it's power back on its creators the Cathexis. [ 108 ] Wally even managed to defeat the Thinker in cyberspace by using his memories and speeding up his mind 100,000 times normal speed. [ 109 ] Enhanced Senses : The Flash's enhanced senses allow him to perceive normally at super-speed, as well as alter his perceptions so that falling objects can appear to be standing still. His ability to alter his own perception of time is so great, that if he wishes, the tick between a second can pass for millions of years. He can even push this ability to the point, that to him, it is as if the Universe is standing still. It does not truly stand still, it is his own perception of time that seems to stand still, and his body automatically adjusts to his perception, hence, the slower he views the world, the faster his body moves through time/space to adjust to his perception. Wally can also feel the slightest changes in temperature of molecules in the air. [ 91 ] When he traveled to Hell , Wally's senses automatically adjusted to the realm's atmosphere by blocking out its disturbing sounds and smells. [ 110 ] Enhanced Vision : By shifting his vibrational frequency, Wally was capable of seeing through the highly advanced cloaking technology of Gorilla City. [ 111 ] Wally was also one of the few beings who can actually see Krakkl and his species, beings comprised of pure radio waves. [ 112 ] When he was Kid Flash, Barry revealed his identity to the world, but only at super-speed. Thus taking a chance that only Wally would be able to see him, due to his enhanced vision. [ 94 ] Wally was capable of seeing his friend Tommy Davis, who appeared invisible to everyone around him. [ 113 ] His enhanced vision also allows him to be a very safe driver on the road. [ 114 ] Through the event of a lightning flash, Wally was able to see through LeFarge's illusion and witness his true form. [ 115 ] Speed Force Empathy : The Speed Force grants Wally an empathetic connection to other conduits of the Speed Force. He can sense when another Speed Force conduit is troubled, and can be drawn to the location of that speedster. [ 116 ] Molecular Acceleration : Wally has absolute control of his body's atoms and molecules. [ 117 ] He can vibrate his molecular structure at various levels to achieve various effects. If he chooses, Wally can excite the molecules of whatever substance he vibrates through to critical mass causing it to explode. Flash can also vibrate his molecular structure so hard, that he can atomize solid objects; especially if he goes through them. [ 118 ] He can even vibrate atoms back to solid form. [ 119 ] If Wally wanted to, he could spread and rip apart his opponent's molecules, but doesn't because he wouldn't want to take another person's life. [ 120 ] Managed to keep his and Linda Park's atoms together for over a week, when traveling through dimensions. [ 121 ] Wally can hear and track high-frequency microwave transmission back to its source. [ 122 ] Intangibility : Wally can vibrate his molecules to achieve an intangible state. While in an intangible state, the Flash is immune to any airborne viruses and can breathe regularly. He can also vibrate so fast that light does not reflect off him, rendering him invisible. Invisibility : On Earth-One , Wally West could use his super-speed to turn invisible. [ 123 ] [ 8 ] [ 124 ] [ 94 ] [ 125 ] When he traveled back in time during the Crisis on Infinite Earths event, he stayed invisible so that the heroes of the past and Anti-Monitor, couldn't detect him. [ 126 ] [ 127 ] [ 128 ] [ 129 ] Phasing : The Flash has always possessed the ability to control his speed and angular momentum at the molecular level, and control his molecular interactions to allow his body to pass through any substance. [ 123 ] [ 88 ] [ 36 ] [ 47 ] [ 130 ] Bio-Fusion : Wally managed to merge with Walter West when battling against Abra Kadabra . [ 131 ] Cheating Death [ 132 ] [ 133 ] [ 134 ] [ 135 ] [ 136 ] Regeneration : By accelerating his healing while using the Speed Force to sustain him, Wally could heal from any injury instantly, without prematurely aging like his alternate version, Walter West. Sharing the Force : Wally is able to "lend" velocity to objects or people already in motion. He has used this power to grant speed boosts to other speedsters. Wally can even share speed on the molecular level, allowing him to accelerate chemical bonds, [ 137 ] as well as lend speed to electrons in order to massively boost a computer signal. [ 102 ] Speed Steal : Wally is able to absorb the speed and/or momentum from anyone or anything. He has used this ability to leave his enemies temporarily suspended in place. [ 138 ] By stealing all of Inertia's speed, Wally was able to permanently immobilize him, essentially turning him into a living statue. [ 139 ] Time Travel : Wally West has shown to be able to traverse time with his own powers, unlike the other speedsters. He can traverse along the time-stream to specific points as they become visible, much like watching a movie in fast forward or reverse. In order to time travel to different periods, he must exceed light speed, which he can easily and instantly do. [ 27 ] He first learned how to traverse through time by Barry Allen, back when he was first starting off as Kid Flash. Teaching Wally how to travel through time with the use of his own speed. [ 8 ] Even without the Cosmic Treadmill, Barry and Wally were capable of traveling through the timestream, to the year 3780. By running at super speed, while vibrating at the same time. [ 95 ] Wally was capable of traveling from the past to the future while carrying Vox in his arms without the use of the Cosmic Treadmill. [ 140 ]
Superhuman Speed : Wally West is by far the fastest being on the planet. According to Max Mercury he's the fastest man to have ever existed. [ 67 ] Wally can move faster than thought and with the aid of other JLA members, came up with a plan within 1 second. [ 70 ] He can move so fast, that he can appear in two places at once. [ 71 ] [ 72 ] Wally managed to move so fast that time apparently appeared to be frozen around him. [ 15 ] [ 70 ] Wally's even fast enough to move when time is frozen at a standstill. [ 73 ] By reciting Johnny Quick's Speed Force Formula, Wally can tap into the Speed Force in a different way, allowing him to move far beyond light-speeds with no effort, making it appear as if time was frozen. [ 74 ] Wally has outran the explosion of Krypton and even raced Zeta-Beams . [ 75 ] He can even move in a form of stay of time where everything around was frozen in place for a while, when he got his powers back. [ 76 ] It's stated that Wally can move faster than thought. [ 77 ]
Superhuman Agility : Wally's agility, balance and bodily coordination are heightened to levels greater than any human being. [ 78 ] He is able to easily maneuver on falling debris and objects, while moving at super-speed. [ 79 ]
Superhuman Stamina : The Flash possesses vast superhuman endurance that is nearly inexhaustible. Wally has ran for days without rest and food. [ 80 ] He was able to run non-stop for over 10 days straight without tiring, through time and space across all of existence, at speeds far beyond light. [ 81 ] During temperatures of minus 35 in Keystone City, Wally spent his time patrolling and protecting the city, at the edge of exhaustion. [ 82 ] He even managed to endure 10 days of torture, by the efforts of the Turtle and the Turtle Man . [ 83 ]
Superhuman Reflexes : Wally's reaction time is enhanced to levels far greater than any normal human being. He is able to easily perceive the movements of other speedsters, and react to danger and events. [ 79 ]
Superhuman Strength : The Flash can use his speed to boast his natural strength to levels superior than the average human being. He is strong enough to lift 800lbs with no sign of physical strain, even while running with it. [ 84 ] He has single-handedly reconstructed several buildings, moved heavy beams and girders into place, [ 67 ] lifted and carried pieces of concrete from stone columns over his head, [ 85 ] and even pushed back and kicked a giant metal ball going at high speed, preventing it from doing damage to the city. [ 86 ] As Kid Flash, he managed to carry a large gorilla a significant distance, [ 87 ] as well as pulled his dad's car from a police station all the way back his house. [ 88 ] Wally has pushed and thrown Girder into a river. [ 89 ] Both Barry and Wally each pushed a heavy steel cable drum, to use to wrap up a giant. [ 8 ]
Speed Force Aura : The Flash's body is surrounded by what he calls his "Speed Force aura". This aura protects him and anyone who is running with him or carried by him, from the effects of using his speed. This includes friction and airborne particulate matter. Wally can sync his aura with his children, giving him the ability to pull them alongside him with a thought. [ 90 ] Wally has also used his Speed Force aura to contain a bomb from detonating, as his aura allowed him to slow down the nitric and sulfuric reactions in the explosive. [ 91 ] Superhuman Durability : Due to his body being surrounded by his protective "Speed Force aura", Wally's durability is heightened to immense levels. It protects him from injury from high-speed impacts such as punches he delivers and receives from his opponents.
Superhuman Durability : Due to his body being surrounded by his protective "Speed Force aura", Wally's durability is heightened to immense levels. It protects him from injury from high-speed impacts such as punches he delivers and receives from his opponents.
Aerokinesis : By running in a circle at a certain speed, Flash is able to create a vortex with a variety of effects. One effect is pulling the air away from the center in order to suffocate an enemy. Another effect is levitating whoever and whatever was in the center. Also, able to send anyone or anything into another dimension when running around them. Some other effects are acting as barriers to movement or funnels for toxic gases. The Flash also can spin his arms to create directed funnels of hurricane speed air that can knock down barriers or reduce the speed of a falling object. When putting out forest fires, what the Flash does when he runs around the perimeter is create a pocket tornado. The updraft lowers the temperature inside the funnel and raises the fire off the ground which takes away its fuel source. Flight : By spinning like a helicopter, he can even perform a limited kind of flight. [ citation needed ]
Flight : By spinning like a helicopter, he can even perform a limited kind of flight. [ citation needed ]
Decelerated Aging : Along with every speedster that draws from the speed force, the loved ones of the speedsters will gain eternal youth like Jay's wife and Barry's wife ages have shown. [ 92 ]
Dimensional Travel : Wally West has shown to be able to traverse dimensions with his own powers, unlike Barry Allen, and the other speedsters. However, Wally now accelerates to the point that he is skirting the very edge of the Speed Force dimension or even entering it. In order to enter the Speed Force dimension, he must exceed light speed, which he can easily and instantly do. Wally managed to vibrate fast enough to enter the world of Korydon, that existed in another dimension. [ 93 ] After he regained his memory of being Kid Flash, he and Barry pierced the dimensional barrier to the world of Ikora. [ 94 ] [ 95 ] [ 96 ] [ 97 ] [ 98 ] [ 99 ]
Electrokinesis : Wally can generate and manipulate the electrical energy that he draws from the Speed Force. This Speed Force lightning emanates off of him whenever he uses his powers, as a side-effect of his muscles processing the Speed Force. [ 49 ] Wally has immense control over the energy, to the extent that he was able to tap into each of his children's energy to remove the Speed Force's death aspect from within them. [ 90 ] Electromagnetism : Due to his electrical abilities, Wally is able to manipulate magnetism to some extent. [ 100 ] He was able to latch onto a large truck with his Speed Force energy, and use his momentum to guide it. [ 101 ] Energy Construct Creation : Wally discovered if he concentrated, his Speed Force energy could be used to create solid constructs, which he commonly used to compose his Flash costume. The first time he used this ability he created a solid armor, enabling him to run despite having broken legs. [ 31 ] The suit is able to automatically adapt it's shape as needed, as well as drain speed from victims. [ 31 ] Wally describes these suit constructs as "alien technology from the Speed Force dimension", and "a machine you can wear". [ 31 ] Later examples included sealing up the openings of his costume against disease, creating pockets for holding things, and even creating Speed Force suits for the entire Flash Family at once. [ 92 ] He was also able to construct a vibrational prison of Speed Force energy to hold enemies. [ 102 ] Energy Projection : Wally is able to project his electrical Speed Force energy in certain cases, such as when he is giving momentum to objects. [ 67 ] Energy Transference : Wally has used his Speed Force lightning to amplify Magenta 's magnetic abilities by a significant amount. [ 49 ] Energy Transformation : When approaching the threshold of light speed, Wally generates so much energy that he essentially becomes pure Speed Force energy. [ 103 ] Wally can even create a suit out of pure Speed Force energy around his entire body. [ 104 ] [ 105 ] Negate Anti-Life Equation : Wally is capable of negating the effects of Darkseid's Anti-Life Equation , through physical contact of his Speed Force energy. [ 106 ]
Electromagnetism : Due to his electrical abilities, Wally is able to manipulate magnetism to some extent. [ 100 ] He was able to latch onto a large truck with his Speed Force energy, and use his momentum to guide it. [ 101 ]
Energy Construct Creation : Wally discovered if he concentrated, his Speed Force energy could be used to create solid constructs, which he commonly used to compose his Flash costume. The first time he used this ability he created a solid armor, enabling him to run despite having broken legs. [ 31 ] The suit is able to automatically adapt it's shape as needed, as well as drain speed from victims. [ 31 ] Wally describes these suit constructs as "alien technology from the Speed Force dimension", and "a machine you can wear". [ 31 ] Later examples included sealing up the openings of his costume against disease, creating pockets for holding things, and even creating Speed Force suits for the entire Flash Family at once. [ 92 ] He was also able to construct a vibrational prison of Speed Force energy to hold enemies. [ 102 ]
Energy Projection : Wally is able to project his electrical Speed Force energy in certain cases, such as when he is giving momentum to objects. [ 67 ]
Energy Transference : Wally has used his Speed Force lightning to amplify Magenta 's magnetic abilities by a significant amount. [ 49 ]
Energy Transformation : When approaching the threshold of light speed, Wally generates so much energy that he essentially becomes pure Speed Force energy. [ 103 ] Wally can even create a suit out of pure Speed Force energy around his entire body. [ 104 ] [ 105 ]
Negate Anti-Life Equation : Wally is capable of negating the effects of Darkseid's Anti-Life Equation , through physical contact of his Speed Force energy. [ 106 ]
Enhanced Mental Process : The Flash's mental abilities are also increased in speed, simple computations can be done at lightning speeds, and his ability to perform normal feats at increased speeds has allowed him to build hundreds of force field generators in a matter of minutes, move sandbags to cover a beach or search an entire area for something as small as a paper clip. Wally can also read at super-speed, but rarely takes advantage of this ability to learn at increased speeds, although Jay Garrick has done so and has become a jack of all trades in several disciplines and languages. Wally managed to keep track of and process all the computers in the Monitor Womb at the JLA Watchtower, when mounting Rescue and Containment OPs all across the planet; when the Earth the temporarily lost it's gravity. [ 107 ] He was also shown capable of pushing back the infinite possibilities and desires of the Id, thus using it's power back on its creators the Cathexis. [ 108 ] Wally even managed to defeat the Thinker in cyberspace by using his memories and speeding up his mind 100,000 times normal speed. [ 109 ]
Enhanced Senses : The Flash's enhanced senses allow him to perceive normally at super-speed, as well as alter his perceptions so that falling objects can appear to be standing still. His ability to alter his own perception of time is so great, that if he wishes, the tick between a second can pass for millions of years. He can even push this ability to the point, that to him, it is as if the Universe is standing still. It does not truly stand still, it is his own perception of time that seems to stand still, and his body automatically adjusts to his perception, hence, the slower he views the world, the faster his body moves through time/space to adjust to his perception. Wally can also feel the slightest changes in temperature of molecules in the air. [ 91 ] When he traveled to Hell , Wally's senses automatically adjusted to the realm's atmosphere by blocking out its disturbing sounds and smells. [ 110 ] Enhanced Vision : By shifting his vibrational frequency, Wally was capable of seeing through the highly advanced cloaking technology of Gorilla City. [ 111 ] Wally was also one of the few beings who can actually see Krakkl and his species, beings comprised of pure radio waves. [ 112 ] When he was Kid Flash, Barry revealed his identity to the world, but only at super-speed. Thus taking a chance that only Wally would be able to see him, due to his enhanced vision. [ 94 ] Wally was capable of seeing his friend Tommy Davis, who appeared invisible to everyone around him. [ 113 ] His enhanced vision also allows him to be a very safe driver on the road. [ 114 ] Through the event of a lightning flash, Wally was able to see through LeFarge's illusion and witness his true form. [ 115 ] Speed Force Empathy : The Speed Force grants Wally an empathetic connection to other conduits of the Speed Force. He can sense when another Speed Force conduit is troubled, and can be drawn to the location of that speedster. [ 116 ]
Enhanced Vision : By shifting his vibrational frequency, Wally was capable of seeing through the highly advanced cloaking technology of Gorilla City. [ 111 ] Wally was also one of the few beings who can actually see Krakkl and his species, beings comprised of pure radio waves. [ 112 ] When he was Kid Flash, Barry revealed his identity to the world, but only at super-speed. Thus taking a chance that only Wally would be able to see him, due to his enhanced vision. [ 94 ] Wally was capable of seeing his friend Tommy Davis, who appeared invisible to everyone around him. [ 113 ] His enhanced vision also allows him to be a very safe driver on the road. [ 114 ] Through the event of a lightning flash, Wally was able to see through LeFarge's illusion and witness his true form. [ 115 ]
Speed Force Empathy : The Speed Force grants Wally an empathetic connection to other conduits of the Speed Force. He can sense when another Speed Force conduit is troubled, and can be drawn to the location of that speedster. [ 116 ]
Molecular Acceleration : Wally has absolute control of his body's atoms and molecules. [ 117 ] He can vibrate his molecular structure at various levels to achieve various effects. If he chooses, Wally can excite the molecules of whatever substance he vibrates through to critical mass causing it to explode. Flash can also vibrate his molecular structure so hard, that he can atomize solid objects; especially if he goes through them. [ 118 ] He can even vibrate atoms back to solid form. [ 119 ] If Wally wanted to, he could spread and rip apart his opponent's molecules, but doesn't because he wouldn't want to take another person's life. [ 120 ] Managed to keep his and Linda Park's atoms together for over a week, when traveling through dimensions. [ 121 ] Wally can hear and track high-frequency microwave transmission back to its source. [ 122 ] Intangibility : Wally can vibrate his molecules to achieve an intangible state. While in an intangible state, the Flash is immune to any airborne viruses and can breathe regularly. He can also vibrate so fast that light does not reflect off him, rendering him invisible. Invisibility : On Earth-One , Wally West could use his super-speed to turn invisible. [ 123 ] [ 8 ] [ 124 ] [ 94 ] [ 125 ] When he traveled back in time during the Crisis on Infinite Earths event, he stayed invisible so that the heroes of the past and Anti-Monitor, couldn't detect him. [ 126 ] [ 127 ] [ 128 ] [ 129 ] Phasing : The Flash has always possessed the ability to control his speed and angular momentum at the molecular level, and control his molecular interactions to allow his body to pass through any substance. [ 123 ] [ 88 ] [ 36 ] [ 47 ] [ 130 ] Bio-Fusion : Wally managed to merge with Walter West when battling against Abra Kadabra . [ 131 ] Cheating Death [ 132 ] [ 133 ] [ 134 ] [ 135 ] [ 136 ]
Intangibility : Wally can vibrate his molecules to achieve an intangible state. While in an intangible state, the Flash is immune to any airborne viruses and can breathe regularly. He can also vibrate so fast that light does not reflect off him, rendering him invisible.
Invisibility : On Earth-One , Wally West could use his super-speed to turn invisible. [ 123 ] [ 8 ] [ 124 ] [ 94 ] [ 125 ] When he traveled back in time during the Crisis on Infinite Earths event, he stayed invisible so that the heroes of the past and Anti-Monitor, couldn't detect him. [ 126 ] [ 127 ] [ 128 ] [ 129 ]
Phasing : The Flash has always possessed the ability to control his speed and angular momentum at the molecular level, and control his molecular interactions to allow his body to pass through any substance. [ 123 ] [ 88 ] [ 36 ] [ 47 ] [ 130 ]
Bio-Fusion : Wally managed to merge with Walter West when battling against Abra Kadabra . [ 131 ]
Cheating Death [ 132 ] [ 133 ] [ 134 ] [ 135 ] [ 136 ]
Regeneration : By accelerating his healing while using the Speed Force to sustain him, Wally could heal from any injury instantly, without prematurely aging like his alternate version, Walter West.
Sharing the Force : Wally is able to "lend" velocity to objects or people already in motion. He has used this power to grant speed boosts to other speedsters. Wally can even share speed on the molecular level, allowing him to accelerate chemical bonds, [ 137 ] as well as lend speed to electrons in order to massively boost a computer signal. [ 102 ]
Speed Steal : Wally is able to absorb the speed and/or momentum from anyone or anything. He has used this ability to leave his enemies temporarily suspended in place. [ 138 ] By stealing all of Inertia's speed, Wally was able to permanently immobilize him, essentially turning him into a living statue. [ 139 ]
Time Travel : Wally West has shown to be able to traverse time with his own powers, unlike the other speedsters. He can traverse along the time-stream to specific points as they become visible, much like watching a movie in fast forward or reverse. In order to time travel to different periods, he must exceed light speed, which he can easily and instantly do. [ 27 ] He first learned how to traverse through time by Barry Allen, back when he was first starting off as Kid Flash. Teaching Wally how to travel through time with the use of his own speed. [ 8 ] Even without the Cosmic Treadmill, Barry and Wally were capable of traveling through the timestream, to the year 3780. By running at super speed, while vibrating at the same time. [ 95 ] Wally was capable of traveling from the past to the future while carrying Vox in his arms without the use of the Cosmic Treadmill. [ 140 ]
Abilities
Acrobatics [ 141 ]
Computer Operation [ 142 ] [ 137 ] [ 143 ] [ 144 ] [ 145 ] [ 146 ]
Chemistry [ 147 ] [ 148 ]
Cooking [ 149 ]
Multilingualism : Along with his native English, Wally also speaks French. [ 150 ]
Indomitable Will : Wally's speed and will were capable of pushing back the desires against the Id, resisting an infinite possibilities of using its power, but enough to use it against the Cathexis. [ 151 ] He even possessed the will power to utilize a Green Lantern Ring. [ 152 ]
Genius Level Intellect : Claiming that he's a quick learner. [ 153 ] Wally managed to outsmart and beat the Thinker in cyberspace, by using his memories, his enhanced mental processing and mind to his advantage. [ 154 ]
Investigation : Although he's not on the same level as his Uncle Barry, Wally has shown that he's bright enough to figure out anagrams and solve a murder mystery, before most people could figure it out. [ 155 ] [ 156 ] [ 157 ]
Tactical Analysis : Wally knows exactly how his Rouges operate, deducing to Batman that they're organized and not idiotic; revealing that Batman Villains work on a different cerebral level than his. [ 158 ] [ 159 ] [ 160 ] [ 161 ] [ 162 ]
Mechanical Aptitude : Wally managed to take apart a missile while underwater. [ 163 ] [ 164 ] [ 165 ] [ 166 ] [ 167 ] [ 168 ] [ 169 ] [ 170 ] [ 171 ] [ 172 ]
Stealth [ 173 ] [ 174 ] [ 175 ]
Acting [ 176 ] [ 177 ]
Disguise [ 178 ] [ 179 ]
Meditation [ 180 ] [ 181 ] [ 182 ]
Martial Arts : Wally was trained by the Flash , [ 183 ] [ 184 ] the Teen Titans, the Wizened Sage , [ 180 ] Superman , [ 185 ] and the Justice League of America . [ 186 ] [ 187 ] [ 188 ] [ 189 ] [ 190 ] [ 24 ] [ 191 ] [ 192 ] [ 193 ] [ 44 ] [ 45 ] [ 46 ] [ 47 ] [ 161 ] [ 194 ] [ 195 ] [ 196 ] [ 197 ] Archery [ 198 ] Boxing [ 19 ] [ 194 ] [ 199 ] Capoeira [ 200 ] Judo [ 201 ] [ 188 ] [ 161 ] [ 65 ] Jujitsu [ 202 ] Karate (Earth-One) [ 203 ] [ 188 ] Taekwondo [ 188 ] [ 204 ] [ 24 ] [ 161 ] Kung Fu [ 180 ] [ 24 ] Muay Thai [ 205 ] Dim Mak : An ancient form of martial arts where you strike vital points of the opponent's body causing paralysis, intense and prolonged pain or death. [ 180 ] [ 182 ] [ 206 ]
Archery [ 198 ]
Boxing [ 19 ] [ 194 ] [ 199 ]
Capoeira [ 200 ]
Judo [ 201 ] [ 188 ] [ 161 ] [ 65 ]
Jujitsu [ 202 ]
Karate (Earth-One) [ 203 ] [ 188 ]
Taekwondo [ 188 ] [ 204 ] [ 24 ] [ 161 ]
Kung Fu [ 180 ] [ 24 ]
Muay Thai [ 205 ] Dim Mak : An ancient form of martial arts where you strike vital points of the opponent's body causing paralysis, intense and prolonged pain or death. [ 180 ] [ 182 ] [ 206 ]
Dim Mak : An ancient form of martial arts where you strike vital points of the opponent's body causing paralysis, intense and prolonged pain or death. [ 180 ] [ 182 ] [ 206 ]
Weaponry [ 207 ] [ 208 ] [ 209 ] [ 210 ] [ 24 ] [ 193 ] [ 47 ] [ 211 ] [ 212 ] [ 213 ] [ 214 ] [ 140 ] Firearms [ 215 ] [ 216 ] Throwing [ 217 ] [ 218 ] [ 219 ] [ 193 ] [ 47 ] Swordsmanship [ 220 ]
Firearms [ 215 ] [ 216 ]
Throwing [ 217 ] [ 218 ] [ 219 ] [ 193 ] [ 47 ]
Swordsmanship [ 220 ]
Chi Manipulation :The Wizened Sage taught Wally about how to focus Chi or Qi, during his first time training in China. [ 180 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Costume Ring (Formerly)
Notes
Although this character was originally introduced during DC's Earth-One era of publication, their existence following the events of the 1985–86 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths remains intact. However, some elements of the character's Pre-Crisis history may have been altered or removed for Post-Crisis New Earth continuity, and should be considered apocryphal.
On Earth-One , Wally's hair color was inconsistent. Although initially red, [ 221 ] it would at some point in time be brown in the Flash comics [ 222 ] while staying red in the Teen Titans comics, [ 223 ] regardless of whether he was in costume or not. This inconsistency might originate from earlier issues where Wally colored his red hair brown when in costume in order to further conceal his secret identity, though this didn't last. [ 124 ]
Initially, Wally's first name was Walter . [ 224 ] It got replaced by Wallace in The Flash #144 .
Wally's origin is greatly expanded upon and revised by Mark Waid in his four-issue retelling of Wally's becoming Kid Flash, The Flash: Born to Run despite much of the core of the origin remaining similar to the events of The Flash #110 .
Trivia
In his teenage years, Wally self-identified as a "mid-western conservative" politically, in juxtaposition to some of the other Titans who he described as "liberals." [ 225 ] However, as an adult, Wally has said that he usually doesn't follow politics anymore [ 226 ] and has been said to be apolitical. [ 227 ] He does not kill but supports the death penalty. [ 228 ]
Regarding his religion , Wally has said "I don't go all the time, but I believe." The conversation included mention of a crucifix, implying that Wally is some denomination of Christian . [ 229 ]
Dawn Allen and Don Allen , Barry Allen's biological children, felt envy towards Wally and thought of him as the favorite son of Barry and Iris . [ 230 ]
Wally has stated he has been to college. [ 231 ]
Neron hates Wally more than any other enemy throughout the Millennia. [ 232 ]
Wally's 21st birthday party was hosted by Fidel Castro for saving him during the Dominators' and Durlans' invasion . [ 233 ]
Related
1,690 Appearances of Wally West (New Earth)
702 Images featuring Wally West (New Earth)
105 Quotations by or about Wally West (New Earth)
Character Gallery: Wally West (New Earth)
External Links
Wally West at Flash: Those Who Ride the Lightning
Wally West at the DC Animated Universe Wiki
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 DC Comics Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Flash (Volume 2) #62
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #63
↑ 4.0 4.1 The Flash Annual (Volume 2) #8
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #64
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #65
↑ The Flash #127
↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 The Flash #120
↑ The Flash #135
↑ The Brave and the Bold #54
↑ Teen Titans #53
↑ DC Special Series #11
↑ New Teen Titans (Volume 2) #2
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #27
↑ 15.0 15.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #30
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #74
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #75
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #76
↑ 19.0 19.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #79
↑ Zero Hour: Crisis in Time #4
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #0
↑ Titans #20
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #100
↑ 24.0 24.1 24.2 24.3 24.4 The Flash (Volume 2) #108
↑ 25.0 25.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #109
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #111
↑ 27.0 27.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #113
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #114
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #117
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #130
↑ 31.0 31.1 31.2 31.3 The Flash (Volume 2) #131
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #132
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #133
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #153
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #154
↑ 36.0 36.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #155
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #156
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #158
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #157
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #159
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #160
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #162
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #163
↑ 44.0 44.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #164
↑ 45.0 45.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #165
↑ 46.0 46.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #166
↑ 47.0 47.1 47.2 47.3 47.4 The Flash (Volume 2) #167
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #170
↑ 49.0 49.1 49.2 49.3 The Flash (Volume 2) #173
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #171
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #172
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #174
↑ The Flash: Iron Heights
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #175
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #176
↑ The Flash Secret Files and Origins #3
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #236
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 2) #10
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #233
↑ Titans (Volume 2) #1
↑ Final Crisis #6
↑ Blackest Night #4
↑ Blackest Night #5
↑ Convergence: Speed Force #1
↑ 65.0 65.1 Convergence: Speed Force #2
↑ Convergence #6
↑ 67.0 67.1 67.2 67.3 The Flash (Volume 2) #101
↑ JLA: Scary Monsters #3
↑ JLA: Scary Monsters #4
↑ 70.0 70.1 JLA #20
↑ Superman (Volume 2) #191
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #215
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #141
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #91
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #138
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #201
↑ Green Lantern Legacy: The Last Will and Testament of Hal Jordan
↑ DC Special Series #11
↑ 79.0 79.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #198
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #97
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #137
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #119
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #35
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 2) #23
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #238
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #122
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #151
↑ 88.0 88.1 The Flash #116
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #223
↑ 90.0 90.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #243
↑ 91.0 91.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #170
↑ 92.0 92.1 The Flash: Rebirth #5
↑ The Flash #135
↑ 94.0 94.1 94.2 The Flash #149
↑ 95.0 95.1 The Flash #159
↑ JLA #112
↑ JLA #114
↑ Secret Origins Annual (Volume 2) #2
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #168
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #173
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #106
↑ 102.0 102.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #145
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #99
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #131
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #132
↑ Final Crisis #4
↑ Adventures of Superman #618
↑ JLA #54
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #187
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #128
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #194
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #136
↑ The Flash #164
↑ The Flash #216
↑ The Flash Plus Nightwing #1
↑ The Flash Secret Files and Origins #2010
↑ Who's Who: The Definitive Directory of the DC Universe #12
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #132
↑ JLA Classified #46
↑ All Flash #1
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #158
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #163
↑ 123.0 123.1 The Flash #114
↑ 124.0 124.1 The Flash #138
↑ The Flash #167
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #60
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #135
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #150
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #229
↑ Titans (Volume 2) #10
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #156
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #130
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #132
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #141
↑ The Flash: Our Worlds at War #1
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #243
↑ 137.0 137.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #104
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 2) #214
↑ All Flash #1
↑ 140.0 140.1 Teen Titans #32
↑ DC Special Series #11
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #95
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #143
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #163
↑ Adventures of Superman #618
↑ JLA #107
↑ The Flash #266
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #104
↑ The Flash Annual (Volume 2) #8
↑ Teen Titans: Year One #1
↑ JLA #54
↑ Flash & Green Lantern: The Brave and the Bold #2
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #81
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #187
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #43
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #57
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #72
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #81
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #95
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #158
↑ 161.0 161.1 161.2 161.3 The Flash (Volume 2) #169
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #217
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #151
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #163
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #201
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #205
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #207
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #211
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #221
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #223
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #230
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #232
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #81
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #94
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #95
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #157
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #158
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #157
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #158
↑ 180.0 180.1 180.2 180.3 180.4 The Flash Annual (Volume 2) #1
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #34
↑ 182.0 182.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #39
↑ Silver Age: Teen Titans #1
↑ The Essential Batman Encyclopedia
↑ Superman (Volume 2) #191
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 2) #212
↑ Identity Crisis #3
↑ 188.0 188.1 188.2 188.3 The Flash (Volume 2) #13
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #17
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #102
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #119
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #148
↑ 193.0 193.1 193.2 The Flash (Volume 2) #149
↑ 194.0 194.1 The Flash (Volume 2) #191
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 2) #30
↑ The Flash Annual (Volume 2) #8
↑ The Flash #266
↑ Teen Titans #32
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #223
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #224
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #2
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 2) #214
↑ The Flash #216
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #34
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #34
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #148
↑ The Flash #266
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #10
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #32
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #34
↑ JLA #57
↑ JLA: Foreign Bodies
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #110
↑ Impulse #11
↑ JLA #57
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #167
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #88
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #90
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #110
↑ Impulse #11
↑ Cite error: Invalid <ref> tag; no text was provided for refs named FV1110
↑ The Flash #202
↑ Teen Titans #35
↑ The Flash #118
↑ New Teen Titans #18
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #121
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #120
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #219
↑ New Teen Titans #21
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #114
↑ JLA: A League of One
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #129
↑ The Flash (Volume 2) #22
This character is or was an incarnation of or an ally of The Flash , and a member of the Flash Family of speedsters. This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the " Flash Family members " category.
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
Justice Society of America member This character has been a primary member of the Justice Society of America in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice Society of America members " category.
This character is or was primarily a member of the younger superhero team known as the Teen Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Teen Titans members " category.
This character is or was primarily a member of the superhero team known as the Titans , in any of its various incarnations . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Titans members " category.

Wonder Woman (Diana Prince)
Wonder Woman Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Diana of Themyscira Main Alias Wonder Woman Other Aliases Diana Prince Star Sapphire War Yellow Lantern Truthqueen [ 1 ] Knight Eternal Cassandra Troy [ 2 ] Relatives Zeus (father, disputed (see #Notes ) Hippolyta (mother, deceased) Jason (twin brother) Donna Troy (adoptive sister) Atalanta (aunt, deceased) Antiope (aunt, deceased) Astarte (aunt, deceased) Sweetheart (duplicate, deceased) Elizabeth Marston Prince (daughter) Robert Hinckley Long (adopted nephew) see Gods of Olympus for more Affiliation Amazons of Themyscira , Justice League Dark , Justice League Unlimited · Formerly Justice Society of America , Star Sapphire Corps , Female Furies , Sinestro Corps , Gods of Olympus , Justice League: Team Wonder , Lords of Chaos Base Of Operations Washington, D.C. · formerly Themyscira · London · Virginia · Boston [ 3 ] Status Alignment Good Identity Public Identity Race Demigod Citizenship Amazon · Olympian Marital Status Single Occupation Princess , Warrior , Ambassador · formerly Diplomat , God of War, God of Truth, God of Peace, Truth Queen Characteristics Gender Female Height 6' 2" Weight 175 lbs (79 kg) Eyes Blue Hair Black Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators William Moulton Marston · Harry G. Peter First Appearance Flashpoint Vol 2  #5 ( October, 2011 )
Wonder Woman
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Relatives
see Gods of Olympus for more
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Race
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Height
Weight
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Princess Diana is the second Wonder Woman and the daughter of Hippolyta , Queen of the Amazons , and Zeus , the mightiest of the Gods of Olympus . Diana volunteered to leave behind her home of Themyscira and champion the Amazons' message of peace, fighting for justice and equality in Man's World and becoming a founding member of the Justice League .
Contents
1 History 1.1 Childhood 1.1.1 Birth 1.1.1.1 New 52 Birth 1.1.1.2 Current Birth 1.1.2 Youth 1.1.3 Learning Her History 1.1.4 Antiope's Visit 1.1.5 Dimension Chi 1.2 Origins 1.2.1 Justice League 1.2.2 Early Career 1.3 New 52 1.4 False Memories 1.4.1 Blood 1.4.2 Guts 1.4.3 Iron 1.4.4 War 1.4.5 Flesh 1.4.6 Bones 1.4.7 War-Torn 1.4.8 Romance with Superman 1.4.9 Trinity War and Forever Evil 1.5 Rebirth 1.5.1 The Lies and The Truth 1.5.2 Heart of the Amazon 1.5.3 Children of the Gods and Swan's Song 1.5.4 Amazons Attacked 1.5.5 The Dark Gods 1.5.6 The Last Age of Magic 1.5.7 The Witching Hour 1.5.8 Lords of Chaos 1.5.9 The Witching War 1.5.10 Teaming with Artemis 1.5.11 Olympians Exiled 1.5.12 Return of the Amazons and Loveless 1.5.13 Doomsday Clock 1.5.14 The Four Horsewomen 1.5.15 The Return of Maxwell Lord 1.5.16 Justice/Doom War 1.5.17 Death Metal 1.6 Infinite Frontier 1.6.1 Afterworlds 1.6.2 Through a Glass Darkly 1.6.3 Trial of the Amazons 1.6.4 The Villainy of our Fears 1.6.5 Feral 1.6.6 Before The Storm 1.6.7 Lazarus Planet 1.7 Dawn of DC 1.7.1 Knight Terrors 1.7.2 Absolute Power 1.8 All In 1.8.1 What is the point of Steve Trevor? 1.8.2 Fury 1.8.3 A Rock & A Hard Place
1.1 Childhood 1.1.1 Birth 1.1.1.1 New 52 Birth 1.1.1.2 Current Birth 1.1.2 Youth 1.1.3 Learning Her History 1.1.4 Antiope's Visit 1.1.5 Dimension Chi
1.1.1 Birth 1.1.1.1 New 52 Birth 1.1.1.2 Current Birth
1.1.1.1 New 52 Birth
1.1.1.2 Current Birth
1.1.2 Youth
1.1.3 Learning Her History
1.1.4 Antiope's Visit
1.1.5 Dimension Chi
1.2 Origins 1.2.1 Justice League 1.2.2 Early Career
1.2.1 Justice League
1.2.2 Early Career
1.3 New 52
1.4 False Memories 1.4.1 Blood 1.4.2 Guts 1.4.3 Iron 1.4.4 War 1.4.5 Flesh 1.4.6 Bones 1.4.7 War-Torn 1.4.8 Romance with Superman 1.4.9 Trinity War and Forever Evil
1.4.1 Blood
1.4.2 Guts
1.4.3 Iron
1.4.4 War
1.4.5 Flesh
1.4.6 Bones
1.4.7 War-Torn
1.4.8 Romance with Superman
1.4.9 Trinity War and Forever Evil
1.5 Rebirth 1.5.1 The Lies and The Truth 1.5.2 Heart of the Amazon 1.5.3 Children of the Gods and Swan's Song 1.5.4 Amazons Attacked 1.5.5 The Dark Gods 1.5.6 The Last Age of Magic 1.5.7 The Witching Hour 1.5.8 Lords of Chaos 1.5.9 The Witching War 1.5.10 Teaming with Artemis 1.5.11 Olympians Exiled 1.5.12 Return of the Amazons and Loveless 1.5.13 Doomsday Clock 1.5.14 The Four Horsewomen 1.5.15 The Return of Maxwell Lord 1.5.16 Justice/Doom War 1.5.17 Death Metal
1.5.1 The Lies and The Truth
1.5.2 Heart of the Amazon
1.5.3 Children of the Gods and Swan's Song
1.5.4 Amazons Attacked
1.5.5 The Dark Gods
1.5.6 The Last Age of Magic
1.5.7 The Witching Hour
1.5.8 Lords of Chaos
1.5.9 The Witching War
1.5.10 Teaming with Artemis
1.5.11 Olympians Exiled
1.5.12 Return of the Amazons and Loveless
1.5.13 Doomsday Clock
1.5.14 The Four Horsewomen
1.5.15 The Return of Maxwell Lord
1.5.16 Justice/Doom War
1.5.17 Death Metal
1.6 Infinite Frontier 1.6.1 Afterworlds 1.6.2 Through a Glass Darkly 1.6.3 Trial of the Amazons 1.6.4 The Villainy of our Fears 1.6.5 Feral 1.6.6 Before The Storm 1.6.7 Lazarus Planet
1.6.1 Afterworlds
1.6.2 Through a Glass Darkly
1.6.3 Trial of the Amazons
1.6.4 The Villainy of our Fears
1.6.5 Feral
1.6.6 Before The Storm
1.6.7 Lazarus Planet
1.7 Dawn of DC 1.7.1 Knight Terrors 1.7.2 Absolute Power
1.7.1 Knight Terrors
1.7.2 Absolute Power
1.8 All In 1.8.1 What is the point of Steve Trevor? 1.8.2 Fury 1.8.3 A Rock & A Hard Place
1.8.1 What is the point of Steve Trevor?
1.8.2 Fury
1.8.3 A Rock & A Hard Place
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation 3.3 Weapons
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
3.3 Weapons
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related 6.1 Footnotes
6.1 Footnotes
History
Childhood
Birth
Queen Hippolyta of the Amazons had an affair with Zeus , resulting in the birth of twin children: Diana and Jason . [ 4 ] To protect herself and Diana from the wrath of Zeus' notoriously jealous wife Hera , Hippolyta hid the truth of her heritage from Diana by telling her that she was shaped from clay and given life by the gods. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Later, this origin was revealed to be a lie, [ 7 ] with Diana herself claiming that her mother had indeed made her from "water and clay and hope" [ 8 ] and the god Hephaestus referring to her as a "waste of clay." [ 9 ]
Following the cosmic upheavals of the Rebirth period, this character's history was revised.
Diana of Themyscira was born of her mother's desperate desire for a child. Hippolyta fashioned a lump of clay into the form of a child on the beaches of Themyscira and beseeched Aphrodite , the patron goddess of the Amazons, to hear her prayers. Diana was then given life by the Greek Goddesses and endowed with godly gifts. [ 10 ] [ 11 ]
Youth
Young Diana and her Kanga Jumpa
As she grew, Diana often became restless, feeling that she had seen all that the idyllic isle had to offer; her listlessness compounded by her existence as the sole child within Themyscira's borders. She did, however, befriend a young Kanga she named Jumpa , and she shared a special bond with Nubia , who emerged from the Well of Souls on the day of Diana's birth; they were considered to be twin sisters, despite their vast difference in age. [ 12 ]
Learning Her History
One birthday while she was young, Diana climbed a tree atop one of Themyscira's peaks, taking in a vista overlooking the island. As she stood on one of the tree's branches, pondering her circumstances, Diana accidentally lost her footing, and fell from the tree. Luckily, she was saved by her erstwhile companion Jumpa. Afterwards, she rode Jumpa down to (and through) the market, much to the consternation of many of the merchants. She and Jumpa proceeded to the beach, where Jumpa, who had not been fully trained, bucked her off, into the water. While underwater, she saw a megalodon in the distance. Much to Diana's relief, she would quickly be pulled from the water by Oenone, who gently admonished her for not training Jumpa more thoroughly, and for fearing the megaladons, who protected the island. Oenone took Diana to a small camp elswhere on the beach, where the Amazons had organized a birthday celebration for Diana.
Despite the celebration, Diana felt ill at ease. She felt unsatisfied with her life, with her seeming lack of purpose. She offered her elders a number of ways she could help: building with Calyce , working the stables with Althea , or tending to the gardens with Oenone. However, her path had already been decided: she would learn the art of storytelling from Clio , the Scribe.
This did not satisfy Diana; she sought adventure, and she saw no such thing taking place in Themyscira's archives. The next day, she met Clio in the archives, where they discussed Themyscira's history. Clio took the position that there were imperfect, dark parts of Themyscira's history, a position that her superior, Hellene admonished her for. However, Diana was intrigued by Clio's debate with Hellene, and, impassioned, sought to learn more about Amazon history from Clio.
Clio informed Diana that parts of Amazonian history had been lost over the years. She took her deeper into the temple archives, showing her a shrine to the Amazons' patron goddesses where some of their most ancient texts were stored, and demonstrated that each statue of the patron goddesses carried a tome—all of them except Aphrodite . She explained that traditional wisdom held that it was because Aphrodite's gift was love, not knowledge, but that she suspected the truth was otherwise. She suspected that that tome was lost to the elements or a battle with intruders.
Diana, ever the thrill seeker, immediately offered to try and recover the missing texts for Clio. Clio was reluctant, but after some badgering on the part of the young princess, she relented and accepted Diana's offer. A few days later, Diana began to search the one place that largely remained untouched: the sea surrounding the island. First, however, she made a stop at Oenone's quarters, and convinced her to loan her a breathing apparatus.
Diana dove into the underwater islands surrounding the island, beginning her search despite her fears of the megalodons. While there, she encountered a young megalodon; she bonded with him, naming him Theo, and Theo led her to an undersea cavern—a cavern that contained the missing text she was searching for. Retrieving it, she brought it back to Clio, to Clios's great excitement. However, they realized that pages had been torn out. Afterwards, she visited her Mother and Phillipus and spoke to them for a time.
The next day, she visited Magala , the Amazonian mystic who tended to the Well of Souls , the font from which new Amazons are brought into the world. She confided to Magala about her and Clio's discovery; Magala revealed that she possesed the missing pages. Later that evening, Diana heard a mysterious voice that prompted her to begin reading through the recovered pages. Within them, she discovered the tale of a young soldier who had been amongst Hercules' forces—compassionate and kind, he had been killed by his own men while attempting to surrender.
Later, she became obsessed with the seemingly enchanted pages. She was interrupted by Clio, who pulled at the pages, causing them to rip, releasing the magic bound within—which then possesed Clio. The possesed Clio began to attack those around her; luckily, Phillipus saved Diana in time. Hippolyta and Hellene confronted the possessed Clio, only to be defeated. Clio would only be saved after Io hit her with a blast from the purple healing ray. Clio and Diana quickly realized that a trap had been placed upon the pages by the witch Circe in order to discourage truth-seekers.
A short time later, Hellene revealed to Clio and Diana that it was her who had torn the pages and hidden the text; that she had done it to gain prestige amongst her fellow Amazons, and that this had left her vulnerable to Circe's manipulations. Clio and Diana accepted Hellene's apology, and in turn Hellene revealed who had ordered her to hide the book in the first place: Queen Hippolyta. Diana confronted Hippolyta, who revealed the truth: she had the histories altered in order to hide her own failure. She then gave Diana an accurate account of the fall of the first Themyscira to Hercules and Theseus , and the death of her sister, Antiope , and how it was her spear that had started the bloodshed. After discussion with Magala, Diana returned to her mother, and convinced her to reveal the truth to her sisters. Afterwards, Clio and Diana participated in the Amazonian games for the first time. [ 13 ]
Antiope's Visit
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dimension Chi
Prisoner of a Dark Dimension
During Diana's childhood, she and Hippoyta became trapped in Dimension Chi , an alternate reality created by Hippoyta and a dark mirror of her own life. Viewing them as advance scouts for an invasion, Empress Hippolyta imprisoned Diana and engaged in a series of contests with the Queen. Being reflections of one another, the queen and empress remained tied until interrupted by an invasion from the domain of Atomia . They joined forces to defend the Empress' Themyscira. Diana managed to free herself, and in the process saved the Empress' life. Diana and Hippolyta managed to bring peace between the Empress' Themyscira and Atomia, and were allowed to return home. [ 14 ]
Origins
Diana is visited by the Gods of Olympus in their animal forms, who bestow upon her great powers
Born to Hippolyta, Queen of the Amazons, Diana lived a serene and joyful life until the intervention of Steve Trevor upon the island of Themyscira. [ 15 ] A tournament was held among the Amazons to determine the representative that would return to Man's World along with Trevor. Diana defeated the other Amazons but was tasked with the final challenge, deflecting a bullet fired from a gun by her mother. After winning the contest Diana was awarded a suit of armor and the Lasso of Truth and left for the United States of America , [ 16 ] though upon her arrival she was arrested and detained in a cell. Falling into despair, Diana was visited by the Gods of Olympus in their animal forms: a peacock, deer, owl, mouse, eagle, dove and tortoise, who granted her the gifts of strength, speed, endurance, empathy and flight. [ 17 ]
Shortly after coming to the outside world, Diana interrupted a terrorist attack and was named "Wonder Woman" by the press, like her mother before her. [ 18 ] She continued to use her gifts to fight for peace and justice in Man's World. [ 19 ] She later fought Ares .
During the late Rebirth era, it was briefly established that Diana had debuted during Second World War, saving the life of sitting president Franklin Delano Roosevelt by a Nazi sleeper agent. Diana then warned Roosevelt that a great evil was coming and asked him to let her help them. Following this, she continued her heroics and thus became a national icon as well as the world's first superhero. This, and her ability to see the greatness each human was capable of inspired the " Golden Age " of superheroes as well as the Green Lantern Alan Scott . [ 20 ] However, it was later established that Hippolyta was Wonder Woman during this period, and that Diana did not debut until much later. [ 11 ]
Justice League
Wonder Woman & The Justice League battles Starro
Diana was among the founding members of the Justice League . While the team's actual first meeting is debated, Diana helped defeat Darkseid's invasion and participated in the subsequent battle with the alien Appellaxians , which resulted in them nearly being turned into trees before emerging victorious. The heroes, inspired by their victory, formed a team, christening it the Justice League, although Diana only joined them officially some short time after their proper establishment. One of their earliest foes was Starro the Conqueror . [ 21 ] [ 11 ]
Following an encounter between Barry Allen and Jay Garrick , the Flashes of two heroic generations, the Justice Society of America fully came out of retirement to defeat the Crime Champions alongside their League sucessors. The two teams began to act together from this point forward to battle any threats too great for a single band of heroes, such as the Earth 3 Crime Syndicate , which included an evil version of Wonder Woman known as Superwoman . [ 11 ]
Early Career
At some point, Diana rescued a young child who was left alone, through unknown circumstances, in an apartment that caught fire. Unable to locate the girl's parents, Diana brought the child to her mother, Hippolyta, who adopted her and trained her in the ways of the Amazons of Themyscira, naming her Donna Troy . In time, Donna was granted the powers of her fellow Amazons and, with her adoptive mother's permission, became Wonder Woman's sidekick in Man's World under the alias Wonder Girl, [ 22 ] [ 23 ] with Diana helping her adoptive sister set up a flat in Washington, D.C. , even though she had reservations concerning her teammates on the newly-formed Teen Titans . [ 24 ]
Around this time, Diana came into conflict with several people who would end up becoming some of her greatest foes, including her former friend Barbara Minerva, now the second Cheetah , Veronica Cale , Dr. Psycho , Angle Man , Circe , Giganta , Silver Swan , Dr. Cyber and Dr. Poison . [ 11 ]
For a time, Wonder Woman forwent a costume, due to briefly losing her powers, wearing "mod"-styled civilian clothes, though she eventually returned to her costumed heroics. [ 25 ] [ 11 ] At the outset of a crisis , she snapped the neck of Maxwell Lord in an attempt to stop him from completing a scheme to wipe out all metahuman life. [ 26 ] In the period right after this incident, she operated as a spy, wearing a white catsuit accompanied by violet-lensed sunglasses. [ 25 ]
At some point, she died and was resurrected. Consequently, during the Blackest Night Nekron was able to turn her into a Black Lantern . [ 27 ] She also briefly served as a member of the Star Sapphire Corps .
New 52
False Memories
Blood
Main article: Wonder Woman: Blood
While in London , Wonder Woman was summoned to help a young lady called Zola from the minions of the goddess Hera and after Diana defeated the enemies, she was informed by Hermes that Zola was pregnant with Zeus's child, which caused Hera's wrath. [ 28 ] Diana then took took Zola and the injured Hermes to the island of Themyscira, home of the Amazons, where Hera's wrath reached them in the form of her daughter Strife . Wonder Woman used the Lasso of Truth to stop Strife from hurting the Amazons, but it caused her to reveal the fact that Diana and her were sisters. [ 29 ] The next day, Diana learned from her mother that she was in fact Zeus' daughter and, hurt by her existence being a lie, she decided to renounce the name Diana, and swore never to return to the island again. [ 5 ]
Unfortunately, not long after Diana left, Hera came for her vengeance, and though she could not bring herself to kill Hippolyta, she could not forgive her either. Feeling regret at giving up the only real family she had, Wonder Woman returned to Themyscira to find the Amazons absent, and her mother turned to stone. [ 30 ] Shortly after, Wonder Woman encountered Lennox , a man who claimed to be another of Zeus' bastard children. After learning that Zeus has gone missing, they confronted the Gods of Olympus, Poseidon and Hades , in order to prevent them from taking over Zeus' throne. [ 31 ] To prevent a war between gods, Diana proposed that the two brothers share Heaven with one ruling during the day, and the other at night. Hera angrily interceded, which was what Diana had planned, and using Hermes' staff she transported herself to Mount Olympus to face Hera alone. She warned that she would make Hera regret what she had done to her mother before returning to Earth . Unfortunately, by the time she had returned, Hades had kidnapped Zola with the warning that Diana would need to make good on her bargain or Zola and her child would die. [ 32 ]
Guts
Main article: Wonder Woman: Guts
Preparing to get Zola back from Hades, Wonder Woman and her male companions sought out Eros in Italy . She hoped that he could lead them to Hephaestus , who might have been able to arm them appropriately for battle with the ruler of Hell . He lead them to Mount Etna , where the blacksmith agreed to arm them. As retribution for his aid, though, Hades sent a monster to kill them all, which had to be dispatched by Diana. [ 33 ] Afterwards, Hephaestus armed Diana with new weapons, insisting that she take Eros' guns of love with her to Hell.
Upon arriving, Diana and Hermes found themselves under attack by Hades' minions. Though they fought them off, they were surprised to find that time for Zola had passed much more quickly than for them. Her pregnancy was nearly at the end of its term. When they attempted to leave with her, Hades appeared, warning that one of them must stay behind, and if Diana was unprepared to make Hera his wife as promised, she would do. However, upon Eros' pistols, he instead agreed to let them all go in exchange for them. When Diana's back was turned, he fired them at her, and she fell under love's spell to him. [ 34 ]
Despite their displeasure at Diana's capture, Hephaestus was able to bring Lennox and Eros to Hades with him as guests to the wedding, without the aid of Hermes' staff. As the wedding drew nearer, Hades grew annoyed that few of his relatives had agreed to come. Diana's friends were the only attendees, aside from Strife, who merely wanted to cause her namesake emotion. Before the wedding ceremony took place, Hades insisted that Diana should prove her love by wearing his ring. The ring was a noose fashioned with the Lasso of Truth, and if Diana did not truly love him, he would kill her. [ 35 ]
Hades attempts to force Wonder Woman to marry him
Though Diana was able to admit honestly that she did love Hades, she escaped her bonds anyway, explaining that she could still love him and refuse his proposal. Angrily, Hades sent all of the forces of Hell to kill her, but she and her friends were rescued by Strife. Confronted by her fiancé again, Diana explained that she had not lied. Wonder Woman has the capacity to love everyone—a concept that could never be understood by one incapable of love, such as he. The realization that he was loved unconditionally disgusted Hades so much that he sent them all away. Before leaving, Hephaestus gifted Hades with a mirror, and shot him with Eros' pistols, allowing, at least, for Hades to love himself. [ 36 ]
With Zola's pregnancy reaching full term, she insisted on seeing her own doctor in Michigan . While there, they were all attacked by Artemis and Apollo . Unprepared, Diana and her companions were defeated, and Zola was taken to Mount Olympus to be delivered to Hera in exchange for the throne. Apparently, Hera was willing to give up her throne for the sake of revenge. [ 37 ] However, she had expected Zeus to return as soon as his rule was threatened, which he did not. When Apollo sat on the throne, he was crowned ruler, and when he learned of Hera's deceit, he exiled her from Olympus.
With Wonder Woman arriving in pursuit, Strife warned of the prophecy Apollo and Artemis feared: a child of Zeus would kill a god to take the throne. That child could be either Diana or Zola's child. Sending Zola back with Hermes to have her baby in peace, Diana warned that if they were not left alone, she would fulfil the prophecy herself. Unfortunately, upon her return to Michigan, Diana found that Hermes had betrayed them, and once Zola gave birth to her son, he whisked the child away, and gave it to Demeter . Diana swore to get the boy back and bring Hermes to justice. [ 38 ]
Iron
Main article: Wonder Woman: Iron
After recruiting a newly mortal, but still very bitter Hera into her group of companions, Wonder Woman retreated to London. Lennox revealed that there had been seven bastard children of Zeus. He and Diana were two, two others had been killed, and three remained. He suggested that for information on where the baby had been taken, Diana should contact their sister Siracca in Libya . [ 39 ] Her encounter with Siracca did not begin well, but after Wonder Woman appealed to her sense of family, she suggested that Diana seek out their brother Milan in New York City . [ 40 ]
Meanwhile, the New God Orion had learned that a great danger was to be found on Earth in the form of the child of a god. He sought out his old friend Milan for help. Nearby, Diana and Lennox decided to seek Milan by themselves, leaving Zola and Hera to bicker with one another in the meantime. They found him in the old subway system with Orion. Though their encounter began violently, Lennox managed to explain that they had accounted for six of the seven children of Zeus. [ 41 ] Orion believed that one of those seven was the child that he had been sent to kill. Lennox and Diana concluded that he was referring to Zola's kidnapped son, and so they convinced Milan to search through the ether until he located the boy in the arms of Demeter. [ 42 ] When they all returned to Manhattan to find Zola and Hera in a bar with War, Diana managed to convince her brother to lead her to Demeter's domain. [ 43 ]
Hermes attacked Wonder Woman there, refusing to simply give up the child, but during their battle, War ripped the baby from Demeter's womb and disappeared. Unable to let a grave wound such as that go unattended, Diana saw to Demeter first, and the goddess warned that War could not be trusted. Worriedly, Diana and Orion returned to Manhattan to find that War had returned the baby to Zola. At last, the baby and his mother were reunited—and Orion would not have to look any further for the child he needed to kill. [ 44 ]
War
Main article: Wonder Woman: War
With the boy safe, Zola decided to name him Zeke . Diana shared a drink with War, who congratulated her in uniting a dysfunctional family and converting it into a strong band of allies. Orion began hitting on her, but left after being violently rejected by Wonder Woman. [ 45 ]
Wonder Woman protecting Zeke
Suddenly, Zola and the others were attacked by Artemis, who was sent by Apollo to kill Zeke, Zola's son. While Zola and the others escaped with Zeke, Wonder Woman took on Artemis by herself. Diana defeated Artemis and went to protect Zola and the others, while Ares took the defeated Artemis back to Apollo. [ 46 ] However, the First Born and Cassandra , two of Zeus' illegitimate children, attacked Zola. Wonder Woman, Lennox and Orion worked together to fight the First Born, but he proved to be stronger than they had anticipated. Orion's Astro Harness incapacitated Cassandra, and Orion opened a Boom Tube so that Wonder Woman and her allies could escape. The First Born attempted to pry the Boom Tube open, but Lennox sacrificed himself so that the others could escape safely. Wonder Woman and her allies arrived at the other side of the Boom Tube and were greeted by Highfather , who explained that they were on New Genesis . [ 47 ]
As her injuries healed, Wonder Woman and her friends spent some time on New Genesis. She spoke to Highfather, who agreed to let her return to Earth. As soon as Diana and her friends returned to Earth, Orion decided to go with them. Arriving to London, they realized the First Born had wrecked the entire city and killed Lennox. The First Born summoned an army of hyena men to kill the intruders but Ares arrived to help Wonder Woman in the fight. [ 48 ]
Flesh
Main article: Wonder Woman: Flesh
Wonder Woman engaged the First Born, but he quickly gained the advantage and attempted to kill Zeke. However, War challenged the First Born to a fight while Wonder Woman recovered. Then, Wonder Woman grabbed a spear and impaled both Ares and the First Born. As he died, Ares congratulated Wonder Woman for being a great warrior. Wonder Woman spared the First Born's life and went with Hades to take Ares' body to the River Styx . [ 49 ]
As Wonder Woman returned to her apartment, Hermes brought her to Olympus, where the gods declared her the new Goddess of War. Diana asked Apollo to restore Hera's godhood, but Apollo refused. Diana returned to London, and Apollo told her that she would not be able to ignore her responsibilities as Goddess of War for long. Diana was still angry at Hermes for his betrayal and asked him to leave, with Hermes stating that, just like she forgave Hera, perhaps in the future, she would forgive him. [ 50 ]
Later, Diana, Zola and Hera had lunch while they were watched by Hermes. Orion, believing Hermes had bad intentions, attacked him before being stopped by Wonder Woman, and at the same time Strife appeared. Back at the apartment, Strife gave War's helmet to Diana, even though Diana still felt uncomfortable at becoming the new Goddess of War. In that moment, Siracca entered the apartment and told Diana that Milan had been captured by Cassandra. Wonder Woman asked Hermes to take her to Chernobyl , and he accepted to help. [ 51 ]
Arriving at Chernobyl, Wonder Woman, Orion, Siracca and Hermes engaged Cassandra's forces to save Milan. Cassandra threatened to kill Milan if Wonder Woman did not reveal the First Born's location. Wonder Woman told her the First Born was in Olympus, but as she left, Cassandra strapped a bomb to Milan's chest. To contain the explosion, Orion took Milan through a boom tube. Returning home, Wonder Woman discovered Zola and Zeke had left, as Zola felt guilty that people were risking their lives to protect them. [ 52 ]
Wonder Woman and Hermes briefly returned to Themyscira so that Diana could pay her respects to her petrified mother. When they got back to her apartment, they found Hera crying and mourning the days when she used to be a goddess. As Diana comforted her, she realized she would need help in finding Zola and Zeke. Wonder Woman went to the Taiga, Siberia, where she asked Artemis for her help. Artemis agreed, on the condition that she and Diana have a rematch. Knowing they are in Artemis' realm, Diana threw the fight in Artemis' favor. [ 53 ]
Wonder Woman becomes the new Goddess of War
With Artemis' help, Wonder Woman tracked Zola down to a subway station, where they found a lock of fox fur. Realizing that Zola was with Dionysus , they went to Providence, where Dionysus was currently located. They found Dionysus captured by Cassandra's minion, the Minotaur. When Cassandra's forces were about to depart to Olympus, Wonder Woman ambushed them and hung onto their plane. When the jet arrived to Olympus, the mountain was hit by a massive explosion. [ 54 ]
Wonder Woman managed to stabilize the plane when it was hit by the shockwave. Hermes and Artemis also arrived at Olympus, where Artemis discovered that Apollo had died in the attack. Among the ruins of the tower, the First Born claimed the throne of Olympus. Wonder Woman confronted the First Born, but he gained the upper hand. However, Hera arrived at Olympus, having regained her Olympian powers, revealing that Apollo had restored them before dying. Hera teleported Wonder Woman and her allies to Paradise Island. There, Wonder Woman found Zola, safe. Hera had also restored the Amazons back to life. Wonder Woman chose to lead them to battle as the new God of War. [ 55 ]
Bones
Main article: Wonder Woman: Bones
Although the Amazons were back to normal, Hippolyta was still a statue, and Hera could not restore her back to life. Zola wanted to leave the island, but Diana told her she and her child were safer with the Amazons. Diana addressed the Amazons and declared her intentions to end the Amazons' isolation and that every Amazon must protect Zeke, a male child. [ 56 ]
Wonder Woman's social reforms were not initially accepted by the Amazons, even if they were morally necessary. Later, she had a training session with Artemis, who urged her to accept the Amazons' worship as a goddess, but Diana refused. Unfortunately, Dessa , a fellow Amazon, kidnapped Zeke and threatened to throw him off a cliff, for she disagreed with Diana's new perspective. Diana convinced her to return the boy to Zola. Shortly afterwards, the men of Paradise Island returned to their original home, with Diana welcoming them with open arms. [ 57 ]
Wonder Woman faces the First Born
As the men helped the Amazons prepare for battle against the First Born's army, Diana received news that the First Born had been attacking other gods' realms. With Eros and Artemis, Wonder Woman ambushed the Minotaur at Demeter's home. Unfortunately, the First Born had already defeated Demeter, so Wonder Woman sent her companions to safety while she confronted him by herself. [ 58 ]
The First Born imprisoned Wonder Woman in what remained of Olympus and ordered his forces to attack Themyscira. As they watched the confrontation, the First Born offered her a place in his goals of conquest, but she steadfastly refused, causing him to thrust a spike into her side. [ 59 ] As Diana lied mortally wounded, Eris dragged her to Themyscira, for she wanted Diana to see her home destroyed and humiliate her. Recovering her strength, Wonder Woman punched Eris down and took Zola and Zeke to Olympus. Her plan was to place Zeke on the throne, so that he could be the new king of Olympus and end the bloodshed, but before she could, Poseidon revealed his presence. [ 60 ]
As Zola defeated Poseidon, the First Born returned to Olympus and ordered the Minotaur to attack Wonder Woman. The Minotaur, however, refused to kill her and the First Born killed him instead. Upon seeing the unmasked Minotaur, Diana discovered her foe was the creature she had spared in the labyrinth. [ 61 ] Wonder Woman furiously threw the First Born into the abyss he was originally trapped in while Zola placed Zeke on the throne. Zola revealed herself to be Athena and Zeke to be another iteration of Zeus himself. Both had planned for Wonder Woman to fight the First Born and accept her destiny as a goddess. With the conflict ended, Athena planned to put an end to her human identity and become a goddess once more, but Wonder Woman convinced her to allow Zola and Zeke to live without godly interference. [ 62 ]
War-Torn
Main article: Wonder Woman: War-Torn
As Hippolyta was still a clay statue, Diana was forced to take the Amazon throne, at least until she could find a way to turn her mother back to normal. At the same time, the Justice League had discovered strange environmental events that had destroyed small villages around the world, leaving only vegetation behind. Furious, Wonder Woman attacked Swamp Thing , accusing him of causing such devastation, while Swamp Thing claimed innocence. Aquaman defused the situation before it could escalate any further. Later, Wonder Woman returned to Themyscira, only to discover Hippolyta's statue had crumbled. [ 63 ] On a training session, Superman asked Diana if she wanted to talk about her recent experiences, but Diana replied that, as queen, grief is not a luxury she could afford. Later, Diana was called for a meeting by the Amazon council, which forced a choice on her: become permanent Queen or abdicate the throne. Before the discussion could continue, the island was attacked by Stymphalian Birds, Ares' pets who were now drawn to Diana as the God of War. Accepting her new responsibilities, Diana successfully defended Themyscira. [ 64 ]
Later, in London, Diana talked with Hessia about what being Queen really meant. Hessia told her the changes she was trying to impose were hard, and it might take a long time for the Amazons to accept them. Wonder Woman was called by the Justice League to look for the survivors of another missing village. As part of the operation, Superman explored the interior of a volcano until he was attacked by insects and lost contact with the League. [ 65 ] Wonder Woman and Batman were next to enter the volcano and found Superman safe and sound. Exploring the volcano further, the heroes found the missing villagers dead and their remains encased in cocoons by one of the volcano's insectoid denizens. Wonder Woman almost killed one of these creatures, until the League intervened and took the creature to the Watchtower for medical attention. Upon returning to Paradise Island, Diana spoke to the spirit of Hippolyta. Comforting her daughter, Hippolyta motivated Diana into accepting her duty as God of War. Diana also learnt that relations between Amazons and the Sons of Themyscira had gone sour and the Amazons had created Donna Troy from magical clay, an Amazon who sought to replace Diana as Queen. [ 66 ]
Wonder Woman in her new suit
In order to prove her devotion to her people, the Amazons issued a challenge to Diana, one she would have to meet in two days. In the meantime, the Justice League had tracked the insectoid queen down to a remote mountain. The League journeyed deep into the mountain and encountered the queen. Diana condemned her for the lives she has taken, but the insectoid queen replied that it was Diana's actions, namely her throwing of the First Born into the depths of the Earth, that awoke the insectoids from their slumber. [ 67 ]
Diana then travels across Mount Olympus, first visiting Donna Troy and encourages her reintegration. Next Diana goes to Zola and Zeke, where Hera joins them and they discuss the isolation and the child. After leaving Zola, Diana travels to Hephaestus, where they tour his vaults and she reflects that she adopted the Wonder Woman suit as a girl and now she is a woman and changes into a new suit, armored and covering her body. Her first expedition is to defuse a bomb set by a teenager, getting closer the hooded villain maces Diana but as she holds him up he escapes and disappears into the river, calling her the God of War, much to Diana's confusion. [ 68 ]
Romance with Superman
After a mission which saw the Justice League rescue Steve Trevor from the degenerate David Graves , Wonder Woman talked with Superman about their individual similarities, leading to a kiss. [ 69 ] A fight with Cheetah led them to take the decision to be more open with their relationship. [ 70 ]
Wonder Woman became Superman's girlfriend.
Their first adventure together as a serious couple involved a battle with Doomsday , a monster of Kryptonian legend. [ 71 ] Superman, already familiar to the monster, explained that Doomsday was sealed into a pocket dimension called the Phantom Zone . Seeking preparation against enemies that could match them in power, Wonder Woman asked Hephaestus to forge weapons for them. [ 72 ] Later, the Justice League intercepted the arrival of General Zod , another Kryptonian survivor. Superman gave him shelter in the Fortress of Solitude , but the couple discovered their relationship was now public knowledge. [ 73 ] [ 74 ]
While Superman watched out for Zod, Diana visited the deserted Themyscira to speak to her mother, still a clay statue. In her absence, a demon from Tartarus had escaped from its prison and roamed free on the island. Wonder Woman destroyed the creature and sealed the gates to Tartarus with her lasso. Leaving the island, she received word from Batman that Superman was engaging Zod and Faora in battle. Reaching Superman's side, Wonder Woman steadily overwhelmed Faora until Zod threatened Superman's life. Wonder Woman was forced to let the criminals go. [ 75 ]
In order to defeat them, Superman and Wonder Woman collected the magic armor created by Hephaestus and intercepted Zod and Faora while they were building a portal to the Phantom Zone. At first, they defeated Zod and Faora by detonating their armor at point-blank range, but Zod and Faora were revitalized by a beam of sunlight sent by Apollo, which gave the criminals enough strength to beat Superman and Wonder Woman and trap them in an abandoned nuclear reactor. As a last-ditch effort to stop their enemies, Superman and Wonder Woman caused a nuclear explosion, but not before Superman told Diana that he loved her. The explosion trapped Zod and Faora back in the Phantom Zone, and Superman shielded Wonder Woman with his cape. [ 76 ] The two heroes barely survived the explosion and Superman took Diana to Hessia, who used a healing crystal to save her. [ 77 ]
Later, as Diana set out to discover the truth about her false memories, Superman faced up to Mr. Mxyzptlk in a battle that changed reality itself. A consequence of that change was that Diana never dated Superman and the adventures they had together did not take place. [ 78 ]
When the deities Deimos and Phobos , sons of Ares, started planning how to free their father from the prison of Themyscira, they began to manipulate Diana, changing all the memories Wonder Woman had about her past, from her birth to travelling out of Themyscira to live in the world of men, and she was also manipulated into believing she lived certain adventures after she left her home. Until later, Diana was convinced that this memories were true.
However, during this period, Diana did participate in many adventures in Man's World that truly occurred; largely events unrelated to the Greek Pantheon and her kin.
Trinity War and Forever Evil
The Trinity War was a major conflict between the three Justice Leagues.
After taking Despero to the authorities, Wonder Woman and Superman came across the mysterious Pandora , someone Wonder Woman was familiar with. She believed Superman could use her box to trap the evil she unleashed in ancient times; but when Superman touched it, he was overwhelmed by its power. While Pandora took the box and left, the two heroes received news that a new superhuman, Shazam , was entering the borders of Kahndaq . Their confrontation with Shazam turned violent until the rest of the Justice League and the Justice League of America intervened to defuse the situation. Suddenly, Dr. Light lost control of his powers and began absorbing Superman's solar energy, unleashing an energy beam at Wonder Woman. In a fit of anger, Superman killed Dr. Light with his heat vision, an action that caused a fight between the two Leagues. [ 79 ]
Superman begged his fellow heroes to arrest him, and while he was taken to the A.R.G.U.S. facilities, Diana expressed disapproval at Steve Trevor's secret Justice League. Wonder Woman travelled to the Temple of Hephaestus and demanded Hephaestus tell her about what the box really was. Hephaestus answered that the box was not created by the Gods of Olympus and the truth was a mystery even to them. Wonder Woman decided to seek help from the Justice League Dark . [ 80 ] Suddenly, the three Justice Leagues converged at the House of Mystery, where the heroes were divided, one side led by Wonder Woman, the other by Batman. Zatanna , having taken Wonder Woman's side, teleported the group away. [ 81 ] Wonder Woman's group tracked Pandora's box to Lex Luthor 's prison cell, where Pandora was offering the box to Luthor. Wonder Woman grabbed the box but was overwhelmed by its power. [ 82 ]
A fight broke out among the heroes for possession of the box and was only ended when John Constantine took the box, being the only one capable of doing so without being corrupted. Zatanna and Constantine took the box to the temple of Hephaestus, where the three Justice Leagues had converged again. [ 83 ] After yet another battle between heroes, the box went dormant and the Justice Leagues discovered a Kryptonite sliver in Superman's nervous system, placed there by the Atomica , a traitor working for the Outsider , leader of the Secret Society . Then, the Outsider used the box to open a path across universes, allowing the Crime Syndicate to enter the Justice Leagues' world. [ 84 ]
The Crime Syndicate imprisoned the Justice Leagues inside the Firestorm Matrix [ 85 ] which psychologically placed them in situations that depicted their greatest failures. Wonder Woman was placed in a situation where she was forced to do battle against both Amazons and humans for the lives of Superman and Steve Trevor. Martian Manhunter and Stargirl attempted to break her out but Wonder Woman ignored them. [ 86 ] [ 87 ]
Wonder Woman and the other heroes were finally released from the Firestorm Matrix when Batman used the Lasso of Truth on Fire storm . Superman was still infected with the Kryptonite shard inside his nervous system, but Lex Luthor was able to extract it, saving Superman's life. Luthor also assembled a group of villains that defeated the Crime Syndicate. Later, at the Batcave, Wonder Woman and the Justice League talked about the enemy that destroyed the Crime Syndicate's world and came to the conclusion that Darkseid would return. [ 88 ]
Rebirth
After the death of Superman , Wonder Woman became depressed and began to remember her origins differently, questioning aspects of her past such as whether she truly was mocked as a child and her relationship with Ares. In a fit of rage Diana crushed the helmet of War. Realizing that she shouldn't have been able to do that, she used the Lasso of Truth on herself and discovered that she had been deceived. Diana traveled to Olympus for answers, but found it abandoned. She also found herself unable to return to her home of Themyscira. [ 89 ]
The Lies and The Truth
Wonder Woman travels to a "Themyscira" that she does not recognize
Seeking answers, Wonder Woman sought out an old friend that she believed could provide the way to Themyscira: Barbara Minerva, the Cheetah. [ 90 ] Cheetah agreed to help, under the condition that Diana kill the plant-god Urzkartaga and free Barbara from her curse, which Diana agreed to do. [ 91 ] When she located Urzkartaga, however, she discovered Steve Trevor and some of his fellow soldiers had been captured by Colonel Andres Cadulo , who intended to become the embodiment of the god and sacrifice Steve in the process. Wonder Woman freed dozens of Cadulo's captives and, with the help of Cheetah and the women he had captured, succeeded in destroying Urzkartaga and freeing Barbara from the curse of the Cheetah. [ 92 ] With Barbara's help, Diana and Steve were able to find "Themyscira," though Diana was surprised to find her mother alive and well despite remembering her as dead at the hands of Hera. After removing her bracelets , Diana realized that her past interactions with these representations of the Amazons and her home were in fact an illusion, and that she may have never returned home since she originally left to escort Steve to the United States. [ 93 ] Upon this realization, Diana suffered a mental breakdown. [ 94 ]
Having learnt of Wonder Woman's inability to return to Themyscira, Doctor Veronica Cale , a wealthy and powerful woman, set into motion a plan to use Wonder Woman to find Themyscira. Years earlier, Cale's daughter Izzy had her soul stolen by the gods Phobos and Deimos. They told Veronica that they would only return her daughter to her if she helped them find Wonder Woman, and got the location of Themyscira from her. Seeing no other option, Cale had formed a team called Godwatch , dedicated to locating Diana and Themyscira.
Veronica Cale employed the toxicologist Doctor Poison , who led Team Poison , a team that attempted to capture Diana and Steve. In order to protect Diana in her vulnerable state, Steve had her admitted to a mental hospital in London. [ 94 ] Team Poison continued to pursue Steve, Barbara and Commander Etta Candy , however. Barbara, who had been a member of Godwatch when she was Cheetah, decided to speak to Veronica herself. Cale and Doctor Cyber showed Barbara footage of Team Poison, who were about to kill her friends, and Barbara agreed to become Cheetah again in exchange for Veronica calling off the team and sparing their lives. [ 95 ]
Diana quickly regained her sanity and was taken out of the mental hospital's care. She immediately noted the absence of Barbara and set out to locate her. However, when she arrived at Empire Enterprises , she was greeted only by Doctor Cyber. [ 96 ] Cale set Team Poison onto Wonder Woman once again, and Colonel Poison managed to shoot Diana through the chest. Diana and Steve quickly overcame their forces and followed Veronica Cale and Cheetah to a gateway that led to Themyscira. Wonder Woman and Cheetah fought, and a drop of Diana's blood fell onto the gateway which opened the portal to Ares' prison beneath Themyscira. Phobos and Deimos, whom Cale had turned into dogs with the help of Circe, entered the portal, along with Diana and Veronica Cale. Veronica found her daughter beside Ares. [ 97 ]
Diana and her mother, Hipployta, are reunited for the first time since Diana left Themyscira
Ares told Diana that he had been imprisoned by the other Gods of Olympus and bound in chains that were secured by Aphrodite through the power of her love. He also told her that years ago, Phobos and Deimos had implanted false memories of Themyscira into her mind, and these had caused her to imagine aspects of her past that had never happened in reality. Meanwhile, Phobos and Deimos entered Themyscira and battled with the Amazons. Diana knew what she had to do, and called Ares to unite her with Phobos and Deimos. He teleported them to her, and using her Lasso of Truth, Wonder Woman bound them through the power of her unconditional love for them, as Aphrodite had done to Ares. With the twin gods defeated, Diana attempted to leave Ares' prison along with Veronica and Izzy, however Izzy's essence had been attached to the realm and could not return to Earth. Izzy was forced to either live out the rest of her days in the prison or live in Themyscira as an Amazon for eternity. She chose the latter and Veronica said goodbye to her daughter. Diana was briefly reunited with her mother, for the first time since she left the island. [ 98 ]
Steve and Diana, re-united
Cheetah sought revenge upon Veronica Cale for abandoning her, and attempted to murder her, but was stopped by Wonder Woman. [ 99 ] Cale refused to transform Cheetah back to her human form, and Cheetah herself decided that she no longer desired to be human. Having left her Lasso of Truth binding Phobos and Deimos, Diana was given it back by the Olympian Gods and reunited with Steve. [ 100 ]
Heart of the Amazon
After preventing a terrorist attack at a refugee camp in Greece, Wonder Woman returned to a government facility in the United States and was examined by a sickly doctor, Dr. Shannon Crawford. That evening, Diana attended the wedding of Etta Candy's brother, where she discovered a bomb seconds away from detonation hidden underneath one of the tables. [ 101 ] She was able to contain the blast, but Etta was injured by a piece of shrapnel. She returned Etta to Dr. Crawford who removed the shrapnel, before touching Wonder Woman with an Amazon-strength sedative she had developed, leaving Diana too weak to fight back. Dr. Crawford told Diana that she had a rare genetic illness, and that she intended to use Diana's Amazon blood to develop a cure, saving her life as well as providing life-saving treatment for others afflicted with the same disease. Diana awoke to discover Crawford had developed Amazonian strength as a result of the blood transfusion. She was able to bind Dr. Crawford in the Lasso of Truth, which rejected the lie and restored Crawford to her previous state. Having lost hope for a cure, Crawford injected herself with the sedative, killing her. Wonder Woman was too late to stop her, but she understood Crawford's decision to end her pain and held her as she died. [ 102 ]
Wonder Woman and Etta Candy fight off assassins
Later, Etta was released from hospital and Diana accompanied her to her home. She was shot by a sniper, but deflected the bullet and interrogated the attacker, who called herself Mayfly . She revealed that she had attempted to assassinate Wonder Woman in return for a bounty that had been placed on her. [ 103 ] Shortly afterwards, Diana was attacked by five more assassins: Cat Eye , Cheshire , Abolith , Baundo , and Plastique , the latter of whom revealed that she had planted the bomb at the wedding. Wonder Woman was able to defeat them all with the help of Etta, and they returned to an A.R.G.U.S. facility. There, Sasha Bordeaux informed her that another scientist, Hamilton Revere, had heard of Dr. Crawford's attempts to harvest Diana's DNA, and had apparently hypothesized that it could be used for the treatment of numerous diseases. Wonder Woman was intrigued and decided to seek out Revere of her own accord and hear out his plans. [ 104 ] When she arrived, Revere informed her that in truth, he sought to use her DNA to create an army of super-soldiers. He had also used samples of Diana's blood to grant some of his goons super strength, who attacked her. Etta and Steve Trevor arrived to assist Wonder Woman, and together they bound the attackers in the Lasso of Truth, which once again removed the lie within their bodies. Revere was arrested, and Diana returned home with Steve and Etta. [ 105 ]
Children of the Gods and Swan's Song
Wonder Woman faces Darkseid
After defeating Giganta in battle, Wonder Woman was approached by a lawyer who informed her that she had inherited the estate of Hercules, who had been killed. [ 106 ] Shortly thereafter, she was told by A.R.G.U.S. that Hercules' body came from an area containing traces of energy unique to Apokolips . Diana visited Hercules' home and found a letter addressed to her, informing her of the location of her twin brother, Jason. She found him in Greece, [ 107 ] and the two seemingly began to bond, only for Jason to turn against Diana after the arrival of Grail, who he had secretly allied himself with. [ 108 ] Grail had begun killing children of the earthly gods in order to use their divine power to restore her father Darkseid to adulthood, as he had been turned into a baby at the end of the Darkseid War . Jason allied himself with her in order to exact revenge on Wonder Woman, as he resented her for not seeking him out after she learned of his existence some time ago and was envious of her. However, as Darkseid was about to drain Diana's life force, Jason regretted his actions and joined Wonder Woman in battle against Grail and Darkseid. Then, Hercules' lawyer revealed his true identity as the King of the Gods himself, Zeus. [ 109 ] Zeus fought Darkseid while Wonder Woman took on his daughter, Grail. Ultimately, Zeus was defeated and his life force was drained by Darkseid, restoring the Apokoliptian to his full adult form. The Justice League arrived, forcing Darkseid and Grail to retreat through a Boom Tube. In the aftermath of the battle, Diana forgave her brother for his deceit. [ 110 ]
Wonder Woman battles Silver Swan
Wonder Woman was soon faced with a new threat. Some years ago, Diana saved a young girl, Vanessa Kapatelis , from death at the hands of Major Disaster . She continued to visit Vanessa for many years as she recovered from her injuries, and encouraged her to undergo experimental treatment involving nanites, which allowed Vanessa to walk again. Eventually, Wonder Woman's super heroics forced her to cease her visits. During Diana's absence, Vanessa's mother Julia died, and Vanessa was left alone and felt that Diana had abandoned her. She began to resent Wonder Woman and declared herself her enemy, using the nanites in her blood to create a metallic, winged suit of armor and adopting the name Silver Swan. [ 111 ] Silver Swan murdered a family of people that Diana had recently saved, causing Wonder Woman to fight her alongside Jason. Diana managed to drown Silver Swan until she lost consciousness, causing her to revert to her human form. She left Vanessa to recover in the care of A.R.G.U.S. [ 112 ]
Amazons Attacked
After Darkseid and Grail's retreat, they returned to a base in the Amazon Rainforest , where Darkseid was setting his mysterious plans into motion. He tasked his loyal Female Furies with tracking down a godly relic he needed, but they were unable to do so thanks to the intervention of Steve Trevor and his A.R.G.U.S. forces. Meanwhile, Wonder Woman fought a number of villains that had been recruited by Veronica Cale: Zara of the Crimson Flame , Blue Snowman and Anglette . As Diana caught up with Steve at A.R.G.U.S. HQ, Jason returned wearing a suit of armor gifted to him by the gods, but with no knowledge of its purpose. [ 113 ] As news came in of an attack by Grail, Wonder Woman and Jason immediately responded just in time to prevent Grail from killing another demigod. Wonder Woman bound Grail in the Lasso of Truth and forced her to reveal Darkseid's plans. Grail explained that Darkseid was looking to build himself an army of Amazons. Due to her half-Amazon blood, Grail was able to break free from the Lasso's grip and retreated. [ 114 ]
Wonder Woman and Jason take on Darkseid
The final remaining relics Darkseid needed were being guarded by A.R.G.U.S. at their HQ, so Darkseid decided to use a Boom Tube to transport the building and all its contents to his base in the Amazon Rainforest. The Female Furies retrieved the relics and put them into place while Wonder Woman fought Darkseid. With the relics' power, Darkseid was able to open a portal to Themyscira. As it is impossible for one who has set foot on Themyscira to return after leaving, Diana was unable to follow Grail through the portal. Grail invaded and began transforming the Amazons into creatures resembling Darkseid's Parademons . [ 115 ] As Jason had never actually set foot on Themyscira, he followed Grail and met his mother Hippolyta for the first time since his birth. While Jason and Hippolyta fought off the transformed Amazons, Wonder Woman was able to defeat Darkseid through her love for her deceased father, Zeus and her half-siblings, calling their spirits out of Darkseid's body and destroying him from the inside. The Amazons captured Grail and imprisoned her in the prison beneath Themyscira, alongside Ares, while Darkseid re-emerged somewhere on Earth. Jason was gifted a magical spear from his mother and returned to Earth. [ 116 ]
The Dark Gods
Since her attack on Veronica Cale, Cheetah had been captured by Cale and held in the basement of Empire Industries, where she was being experimented on by Doctor Poison. Cheetah suddenly dropped into a coma, before waking and massacring Empire Industries' staff, while screaming about the return of the so-called 'Dark Gods'. She attempted to kill Cale once again, but was restrained due to the timely intervention of Wonder Woman. Steve Trevor informed Diana that all over the world, people had begun acting strangely and warning of the Dark Gods. As she flew through the skies of Washington, she was suddenly attacked by a deranged Supergirl . [ 117 ] After a lengthy battle, Wonder Woman was able to defeat Kara and restrained her in the Lasso of Truth, which knocked her unconscious. Jason returned after learning from the Fates that the armor that had been gifted to him by the gods was originally created for Diana, but had been mistakenly given to Jason after Zeus' death. It also allowed Jason to channel the power of any member of the Greek Pantheon, though he could only use one god's powers at a time. Jason began to explain his discoveries to Diana, but they were interrupted by a group of giant monoliths appearing in the sky, which began to activate. As soon as the siblings began to investigate, Wonder Woman was taken by a pair of Star Sapphires who needed her assistance due to an emergency on Zamaron . As Diana was forcefully teleported, Jason was left alone before the activating monoliths. [ 118 ]
The Dark Gods arrive on Earth
Wonder Woman was taken to Zamaron where the Star Sapphires informed her that a Dark God had taken hold there, too. Diana fought the newly-emerged Karnell , Dark God of Love, who informed Diana that he and his brethren had come from the Dark Multiverse , which the Justice League had recently encountered . When Diana wore the Tenth Metal during the climax of the Justice League's battle with Barbatos , Diana had wished for the gods' return. Though she had meant the Gods of Olympus, the Dark Multiverse's gods were chosen instead, and thus she had unintentionally caused their invasion. Together with the Star Sapphire Corps, Wonder Woman was able to defeat Karnell, who retreated back to Earth. Wonder Woman left the Corps and returned home. [ 119 ] In her absence, Jason had united with the Justice League and fought the Dark Gods, who had plunged Earth into chaos. Suddenly, the Dark Gods disappeared, only for them to return with Jason at their side. [ 120 ] Jason fought Wonder Woman, but after he led her away from the Dark Gods, he revealed that he was using his armor to channel the power of Dolos , God of Deception, and was in fact deceiving the Dark Gods. Using the wisdom of Athena, Jason developed a plan to convince the Dark Gods to retreat back to their reality. He offered himself, along with the power of the Greek Pantheon, in exchange for the Dark Gods leaving Earth. The Dark Gods accepted the proposal and Diana tearfully said goodbye to her brother, who was taken with them to the Dark Multiverse. The planet was saved and its people returned to normal, but Diana was distraught over the loss of her brother. [ 121 ]
The Last Age of Magic
After the Justice League fought the threat of the Omega Titans , the Source Wall was broken with many consequences that shook the foundations of the Multiverse itself. Once back to Earth, Wonder Woman felt that the dimension of magic was different, almost troubled, after the battle with the Titans, especially since the Tree of Wonder appeared in the city of Salem . Without knowing why she felt this dissonance, as she wasn't a practitioner of magic, Diana reached out to a friend who could know more: Zatanna Zatara. Finding her struggling to control a simple enchantment while performing in her father 's theater, Wonder Woman asked the sorceress to join a division of the Justice League she was creating to investigate the current instability pervading magic. Zatanna acknowledged the fact that magic was unstable, acting with a dangerous behavior, but sustained that it was a matter that magical creatures, and magical creatures only, would have to look into, refusing Diana's offer.
With the new Justice League Dark
Back in her new headquarters, the Amazon told her only two recruits, Detective Chimp and Man-Bat , about her failure in bringing Zatanna into the fold. Soon though, problems started to manifest: the corpses of many magicians killed by their own magic came back to life and attacked the team, who was there for Kirk Langstom's studies, as the scientist was trying to figure out the effect the unstable magic had on the magician themselves. While fighting against these mutated zombies who talked about a mysterious race of beings called the Otherkind , Zatanna and Swamp Thing teleported inside Diana's headquarters, helping defeating the enemy. Zatanna then told Diana what she was doing before joining the fight: she was with Swamp Thing, trying to talk to the Tree of Wonder, when the Tree itself, in the form of her father, showed her a prophecy that completely changed her mind about what she offered to her earlier. [ 122 ] With the formation complete, the new Justice League Dark decided to head back to Salem to contact Doctor Fate , trying to find out if he knew something about why the whole system of magic was breaking apart.
Diana and Zatanna were the only two admitted to the presence of Fate, but soon they both found out that Fate's host, Kent Nelson, was not in control of his body: the Lord of Order himself, Nabu , was currently possessing Kent's body. Nabu revealed to both of them that h was tired of magic, as it was something that has got completely out of control, causing chaos and especially destroying Order, which is what Nabu swore to serve and protect. He then confessed he planned to let the Otherkind and their leader, the Upside-Down Man , come to Earth to bring magic back to its original place, so that the Order of the universe could be re-established. Without even the chance to fight him, Diana found herself in front of the horrific Upside-Down Man himself. [ 123 ]
The fight begun, but soon all members of the team and another magician, John Constantine, learnt that the creature was too strong for any of them. When all seemed lost, Diana got imbued with a mysterious and completely unknown kind of magic, coming from a mark on her forehead. This magic somehow hurt the Upside-Down Man and, thanks to the suggestions of Zatanna, Diana was able to banish the creature away, also restoring the damage he caused. Still, no one understood anything about this new power Diana awakened, with the threat of the Otherkind not extinguished, but just delayed. [ 124 ]
The Witching Hour
When she was twelve, Diana witnessed a rite performed on Themyscira to honor the witch-goddess Hecate : while there, she remembered being marked on the forehead by the deity herself. After the memory resurfaced in her mind, Diana went with Zatanna to a meeting with the Justice League to inform them of the threat of the Upside-Down Man and the Otherkind. When the discussion moved to how Diana's new team was able to contrast and banish an enemy so powerful, Diana was visibly struggling to hide a truth she did not want her comrades to know, and so Zatanna intervened, shifting the topic to something different. Back in the Justice League Dark headquarters, Zatanna and Diana confronted each other on the matter, with the Amazon telling the sorceress she didn't want to make any of her League teammates worried about her condition, a condition even her found mysterious and incomprehensible.
As the team gathered, Hecate manifested herself, trying to take control of Diana. Zatanna managed to help her resist as long as necessary, as Detective Chimp opened a portal to a safe place: the Oblivion Bar . Once there though, John Constantine informed them they just missed a massacre at the hands of another of the witch-marked of Hecate, and that the time for the Witching Hour had come. [ 125 ] After Constantine joined the team, they all travelled to the island of Aeaea to talk with Circe, a protege of Hecate, in an attempt to find out how to contrast the deity and also control Diana's power.
Even if Zatanna disagreed, Circe and Diana both thought that Wonder Woman would be able to utilize her new power against Hecate herself. Soon she had the opportunity to do it, as Deadman informed everybody that Manitou Dawn , possessed by the witch-goddess, was tearing Nanda Parbat apart. [ 126 ] Once there, Diana soon realized Zatanna was right, as Hecate took full control of her body, with her soul now imprisoned in Hecate's home dimension, the Collective Unconscious . As last resort, Zatanna and Constantine tried to exorcise Hecate's power outside of Diana's body, but thanks to the instability in magic and the unknown nature of Hecate's power, the rite ended unexpectedly: the other two active witches possessed by Hecate were freed from her grasp, but all their power converged inside Wonder Woman. [ 127 ]
Possessed by Hecate!
Hecate, using Diana's body, took then control of Nanda Parbat and moved out to take a final step towards controlling all of magic: making the Sphere of the Gods hers. While tearing Mount Olympus apart, the soul of Diana travelled through the Collective Unconscious, finding hospitality in the two dormant aspects of Hecate herself. They told Diana the real story of Hecate and they also told her that now the Crone, Hecate's hateful and angry aspect, was in control. Diana had to make a bold choice to defeat the powerful goddess, but a choice which was necessary: with the other aspects of Hecate offering her a window of opportunity, Diana got back in control of her body, then using her power to open a portal for the Upside-Down Man who, as the Dark Multiverse counterpart of Hecate, came down and ate the goddess alive. After restoring the Sphere, Diana lost all her magical power with Hecate defeated. Back to the Justice League Dark headquarters, Diana and Zatanna started planning about a counterattack against the Otherkind. [ 128 ]
Lords of Chaos
Diana with the Justice League Dark
After helping Bobo fixing problems he created inside the world of Myrra , [ 129 ] the team continued its battle against the Otherkind, with Diana and Zatanna receiving a message from Zatanna's father, Giovanni, imprisoned by the Upside-Down Man. [ 130 ] In the message, Giovanni told Zatanna to find Mordru and also delivered her the Ruby of Life : trying to find a trail that could lead them to the powerful sorcerer, Diana first tried to obtain information from Papa Midnite , but with no success. [ 131 ] Her and Zatanna later headed to Aeaea, the island of Circe, to talk about the Ruby and Giovanni's message with the witch. [ 132 ]
Circe reveals to Zatanna that her father plotted every minute of her life, leading her to an encounter with Mordru at the right time, also using John Constantine as his pawn. The witch then told both the sorceress and Diana that they would never find Mordru, but that he would find them instead. [ 133 ] Knowing this, Diana and Zatanna teleported back to the Hall of Justice , finding there a construct resembling an old inn that was never there: it clearly was an invitation from Mordru, so the two heroines entered it.
Even if Mordru was clearly an evil creature, going as far as disgusting Diana who saw no trace of good intentions in him, the two women had to obtain his help: using his powers and the Ruby of Life, Mordru gave both Diana and Zatanna power over Chaos, transforming both in Lords of Chaos. [ 134 ] Reuniting with the team, who was meanwhile in a conflict against the Lords of Order, Diana and Zatanna gave to their comrades the same powers they obtained from Mordru and thanks to them, they defeated Nabu and his allies. In the end, Zatanna understood that the Ruby her father gave her was needed to perform a titanic task: reshape magic from scratch. Now that Order was in shambles, the perfect opportunity to rewrite magic from the start appeared, with Zatanna also understanding that only someone who was not born a magical creature would be able to truly reshape magic as something better. So, Zatanna gave the Ruby to Wonder Woman, who performed the ritual herself, revitalizing but also changing the entire structure of the magical system. [ 135 ]
The Witching War
After the League defeated Hecate, the power of the deity was not destroyed but converged inside the last of the witch-marked, Circe. The witch tricked Diana and her allies into defeating the goddess to take all the power for herself, never revealing she was marked. After this, Lex Luthor approached her with one of his offers to lead the Universe towards Doom: a personal team to rival the might of the Justice League Dark itself. [ 136 ]
Meanwhile, Diana was sleeping in the Hall of Justice when she was contacted inside her dreams by Giovanni Zatara: he wanted to warn her about her pivotal role for the destiny of magic and also told her she should watch out for an enemy hiding in plain sight. The dream was abruptly stopped by the appearance of the Upside-Down Man, capable of entering inside it when Diana mentioned his name. Once awakened, Diana tried to reach Zatanna to find out what would she think about the experience she just had. As the team was missing due to a problem with vampires, Diana talked about the matter with John Constantine, who counseled her about keeping an eye on Circe. Wonder Woman also told the Hellblazer that she knew he was hiding something as well, and she would keep an eye on him going forward. [ 137 ]
The three aspects of Wonder Woman
Reuniting with the team, Diana asked Bobo and Swamp Thing to keep track of Circe, while she privately talked about the vision she had of Giovanni with Zatanna and Kent Nelson. Then, she also explained them a dangerous plan she developed to take Circe by surprise: accessing the Collective Unconscious, Hecate's home dimension, through the Black Diamond , prison to the evil Eclipso . [ 138 ] While Wonder Woman succeeded in entering the dimension, she found out Circe was already there, waiting for her. Imprisoning her there and taking control of her body, given that only souls can access the Collective Unconscious, Circe revealed that her plan involved freeing Eclipso all along, as he was key to control all magic. [ 139 ]
While inside another dimension, Diana was visited by the Upside-Down Man and stroke a deal with him: if he would help her defeat Circe now, she would re-establish the missing power of Hecate, giving to the Upside-Down Man once again a counterpart in the Multiverse. The monster accepted the deal, warning Diana that if she was going to fail, he would consume the whole Multiverse with the Otherkind. [ 140 ] Maybe condemning the whole world while doing it, Diana came back and closed Circe inside the Collective Unconscious together with the power of Hecate, making her a prisoner similarly to Eclipso, ending the Witching War. [ 141 ]
Teaming with Artemis
Wonder Woman with Artemis and Aztek
After helping former mercenary Moon Robinson change her life, [ 142 ] Diana helped the new Aztek in stopping an invasion that Tezcatlipoca was arranging, also discovering that her aunt, the legendary Atalanta , had been rebuffing the evil god assaults for years. Given the involvement of Atalanta, Wonder Woman also sought out the help of Artemis of Bana-Mighdall , as Atlanta was one of the founders of the rebel branch of the Amazons. Entering the realm of the Mexican Gods, called the Thirteen Heavens , Diana, Aztek and Artemis were able to combine their powers to defeat, at least temporarily, the god Tezcatlipoca. [ 143 ] [ 144 ]
With the mission completed, Wonder Woman offered to bring both Artemis and Atalanta back home, in the deserts of Qurac . Artemis was eager to reintroduce the founder of her people back home. Once in Qurac though, the three Amazons were not well received, as the new queen of Bana-Mighdall , Faruka , wanted to transform Bana-Mighdall's culture, changing from nomads to permanent residents of the state of Qurac. Counseled by local rebel Rustam , Faruka wanted to start a conflict with the government of Qurac. Atalanta was imprisoned while Artemis, having to respect her duty, followed the orders of her queen. Diana was attacked by Rustam, but soon after she tried to free Atalanta. The legendary Amazon though told Diana that freeing her would be a bad move: she should wait for the Amazons of Bana-Mighdall to ask for her freedom.
Following the counsel of Atalanta, Diana still did everything to stop the conflict between the Bana-Mighdall and Qurac, and succeeded when, with the Lasso of Truth, she was able to bring Artemis to reason. After the two defeated Rustam, they also made Faruka confess she used Rustam to trigger the conflict even if it was unnecessary, because she believed the Amazons should have made Qurac their home. In the end, the Bana-Mighdall decided to still let Faruka being queen, but assisted by Atalanta. This led Artemis to decide to abandon her tribe and travel the world by herself, in the mold of Diana. Wonder Woman is touched by Artemis decision, that reminded her of her own decision of leaving Themyscira, and decided then to give her the Lasso of Submission , telling her to redeem it and renaming it as the Golden Promise. [ 145 ] [ 146 ]
Olympians Exiled
Diana and Ares
While Diana sleeps in her bed, she had dreams of her lover, Steve Trevor. As she talks with him, the wall behind him starts becoming as red as blood. Waking up from the shocking image, Diana receives a phone call from Etta Candy explaining Trevor's unit has gone down in the nation of Durovnia and that Steve himself is "M. I. A." She warns Diana not to intervene but the Amazon is already on her way. Diana saves a boy from Durovnian soldiers, then confronts Etta as she informs Diana that the Durovnian government is an ally. Diana refuses to think that Etta could be an ally to a nation who oppresses people, but then Etta tells her the States had to intervene because a new warlord appeared here and started a new wave of violence.
While Diana and Etta discuss, the boy she saved commands a group of mythological creatures who were, for an undisclosed reason, brought away from their home. Back on the battlefield, Diana once again rushes in to search for Steve, but then set her sight on the mysterious warlord and approaches him to confront him; she is shocked when he reveals her he is Ares, now reborn and ready to assist her in fighting for justice against tyranny. [ 147 ]
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Return of the Amazons and Loveless
The Battle for Themyscira
Following the path of light projected by Antiope's sword, they reach an exit, opening in front of them is another dimension, the Dimension Chi, a place Diana remembers to be a dangerous one, being that the last time she was here she barely escaped with her life. After telling the Dimension Chi story to Maggie and Atlantiades , Diana realizes that if they are in this dimension, Hippolyta and the rest of the Amazons must be close, as the dimension exists in the mind of her mother, which can only mean she is still alive. So they are ready to finally encounter the Amazons. [ 148 ] [ 14 ]
Doomsday Clock
Diana and the Justice League are defeated by Dr. Manhattan
Diana disappeared from the public eye for some time, and was thought to have returned to Themyscira, until global tensions were incited by an explosion created by Firestorm in Moscow and the rumors of the "Supermen theory" alleging creation of metahumans by the United States government to serve as tools, she returned to address the United Nations and call for peace. She was attacked at the United Nations Building by the Creeper , Giganta and Black Adam who had turned against the world leaders for their oppression of metahumans. The Amazons brought her back to the island after the Oracle prophesied that she would be injured if she continued fighting. [ 149 ] [ 150 ]
After Dr. Manhattan undid the alterations he had done to the timeline, the Justice Society of America had been restored. Another result of the undoing of the alterations was that Diana had fought alongside the JSA during World War II . She later arrived at Washington, D.C. in order to assist the JSA, the Legion of Super-Heroes and Superman in stopping the ongoing battle between metahumans. She later called for the re-establishment of the Global Guardians in its aftermath. [ 151 ]
Following alterations to the timeline, Diana's debut on the global stage was shown to have occurred much earlier, during the presidency of Franklin Roosevelt in 1939. [ 20 ]
The Four Horsewomen
Diana against the Dark Fates
Returning from Themyscira, Diana was welcomed in her home by her neighbor and detective Nora Nunes , with an assignment about making sure Wonder Woman won't become a danger to the city of Boston while there. Diana tells Nora she does not have to worry. She won't be danger to anything and anyone, and if it means bringing her to work with her, she will. Diana then helps Etta Candy's co-workers set up the place. During an storm, Diana and Nora take some looters out. A lightning strikes Diana, who resists it. Wonder Woman then tells Nora that the storm is not natural, but magical. Someone with great power is aiming an entire storm at her, to attract her attention. Nora tells Diana she trusts her, after seeing how she handled things, and tells her to go where she must.
Diana so flies into the skies, to learn about who wants her attention, and soon discovers it; the Dark Fates are searching for her and rejoice when Wonder Woman finally stands in front of them. As Diana prepares to face them, they tell her that she is the only obstacle towards domination, thanks to the strong truth that lives in her. Then, the Fates disappear. Diana later helps Boston in regaining control after the storm and confronts Nora about her new experience living inside a town this big. Diana tells Nora that nothing is more important than protecting the innocent and helping the weak for her. With a firm handshake, the two women form an alliance, promising to help one another in serving and protecting the city.
The Fury of the Four Horsewomen
Back at home, Diana places on the wall a metamorphic magic sphere and, thanks to the power of Dionysus, she invokes Donna Troy to talk with her, but no one answers from her apartment in New York City. Diana promises that wherever Donna is, she will reach her and help her, as she realized, talking with Peng Deilan , the Wonder-Woman of China , that she wasn't there for her sisters in the world of men, and that she must be more present in times as dark as these. [ 152 ]
The Return of Maxwell Lord
After establishing the Amazon Embassy on Earth, Diana transferred back to Washington D.C. and there met her new neighbor, a girl named Emma who Diana learned suffered from memory problems, related to the death of her parents in an incident with a drunken driver. Bonding with the girl, Diana went with her to buy some furniture for his new apartment: while there, Wonder Woman saved a mother and his young son from certain death, as the woman was driving her car into a truck. Diana discovered that the woman was suffering from some sort of hallucination, thinking she was going together with his son to buy some ice cream.
Later the same day, Diana was tasked to help sedating a revolt inside Stryker's Island Penitentiary , and while in there she found out Maxwell Lord was one of the prisoners in custody. [ 153 ] Finding the resurgence of Lord disturbing, Diana was afraid Lord could have been behind the hallucinations who started to hit several men and women around the country. Trying to find out if she was right in suspecting Lord, Diana went to Etta Candy, now director of the Disaster Relief department in Washington, with her friend assuring her Lord was collaborating since the Justice League and the Sucide Squad arrested him, taking him into custody. Getting back home, Diana once again passed some time with Emma, talking about how much tiringly was the life of a superhero.
Battling against Liar Liar
While sleeping, Diana started seeing visions of gigantic robotic constructs and Parademons attacking her: without realizing she was victim of an hallucination, Diana attacked and almost severely hurt a troop of army soldiers she exchanged for enemies. [ 154 ] Taken into custody by Etta, Diana recovered thanks to the intervention of Lord himself, who was able to let her get back to reality thanks to a mind trick. Soon, it was discovered that the mean by which people started having hallucinations was an app called Odypix, developed utilizing a server structure Lord created, called Odysseus. Lord swore, while wrapped in the Lasso of Truth, that he wasn't behind the catastrophes, but also told he was sure he would be able to stop the effect from working, as after all Odypix was based upon his creations. [ 155 ]
Travelling with Diana to stop several cases in the whole country, Lord and Wonder Woman soon found out that the mind behind the whole mess was the one of Emma herself, not just Diana's new neighbor, but a powerful psychic and daughter of Maxwell. She was trying to impress her father, giving him an opportunity to kill Wonder Woman once and for all. [ 156 ] Thanks also to the fact that Max Lord did not side with Emma, Diana was able to defeat the girl, calling herself with the alias Liar Liar, taking her into custody. Determined to be able to change Emma's life, offering her a path at redemption, Diana also found out that her path with Maxwell Lord as a comrade and ally was not finished with stopping his secret daughter. [ 157 ]
Justice/Doom War
At the Mercy of Grodd
Diana took part to the fight to conquer the power of the Totality , fighting against the Legion of Doom . She took on a mission with Aquaman and Flash inside an underwater base of the Legion, where she found out someone was experimenting on Martians using genetic material from both the Amazons and the Atlanteans . While there, she was tricked into fighting Aquaman thanks to Grodd's telepathic powers. After the League won the battle thanks to Hawkgirl , Diana and Aquaman guessed that Cheetah and Manta were soon going to make their move, which started with the murder of Poseidon. To find the dead Olympian and question him, Aquaman and Diana went on a mission in Antarctica , to find the legendary key for the Graveyard of Gods .
After finding the key, both Diana and Aquaman were transported in the Blood Reef by the Triumvirate of Sea Gods , who then attacked the Earth. While Aquaman was captured, Diana trifted inside a space ocean, and was able to find his comrade and save him from death. Learning that Aquaman was stripped of his power, Diana decided to try and reach the Graveyard of Gods, as the key was still in her possession. Reaching Poseidon, Diana and Aquaman learned of Arion's true story, and came back to Earth where Aquaman sacrificed himself to defeat the Triumvirate and Manta. Still, Diana felt that Aquaman was not dead, but just unreachable by them in that moment.
Later, Diana took part in the League expedition inside the Sixth Dimension and, once back, discovered together with his comrades that Lex Luthor was inches away from awakening the evil goddess Perpetua . Following the plan of Starman , which was to retrieve two shards of the Totality lost in time to create a Justice Totality for the League to use, Diana travelled to the future together with Batman and Superman. Once there, they found themselves in a world ruled by Brainiac , where only one human being lived: Kamandi . Helped by the kid and several other Leagues coming from Brainiac's bottled futures, they were able to defeat the enemy and bring to the present their shard of Totality.
Still, the plan failed, and Lex assaulted the Hall of Justice with his Apex Predators, winning the war. As Perpetua tried to kill all the core members of the Justice League, they were saved and transported to the Moon by the Quintessence . Once there, they accepted to embark on a mission to gather Anti-Crisis energy and defeat Perpetua. Diana was the one who absorbed the energy, and she fought against Perpetua in a duel, but lost when the evil goddess made her uncertain: a victory could mean all her friends would die, as the Hands would come to destroy the Multiverse. Diana then removed this memory from her mind due to the trauma, and came back to Earth with the other Leaguers. Together, they found out their planet was now property of the Batman who Laughs , the new right hand of Perpetua.
Death Metal
The Trinity during Death Metal
Diana and an army of Lobo's clones adventured into the Dark Multiverse where Lobo fell prey to its shadows, so Diana reached alone the World Forge where she met Darkseid that tried to discourage her from trying to change the history. Diana understood that only truth could save them all so she bound herself to her lasso and, using the energies of the Forge, she managed to alter the reality and restore every memory of past events, greatly empowering herself, much to Darkseid's surprise. [ 158 ]
Diana later returned to the Earth to kill the Darkest Knight, but even with her new found powers, she could not overpower the Dark God who brought her back to the Creation, just before the Hand created the Multiverse, revealing her that he was going to kill her and the other Hands. He made her an offer to save her and all of her friends if she sided with him and let him kill the Hands. Believing in her and his friends, Diana refused and punched him to the End of Time . There, the Darkest Knight finally revealed her that the Hands were waiting for the battle to end to finally destroy the Multiverse in order to punish it for having been twisted and derailed from its original purpose, so she had, now, to choose how his Multiverse would end.
In the end, Diana chose to let the Darkest Knight burn and die in the Final Sun and awaited for the Hands to ultimately destroy the Multiverse. However, one of them, taking the appearance of her Earth-Two counterpart , told her the Hands admired her ultimate sacrifice in order to save them and rewarded her by restoring the Multiverse, with all the events that ever happened, and letting her ascend to an Higher Plane. [ 159 ]
Infinite Frontier
Afterworlds
Diana in Valhalla
After Diana's death, she awoke, not on Olympus, but the Norse afterlife, Asgard . There she met a warrior named Siegfried and a talking squirrel named Ratatosk. Ratatosk told Diana that his home, the world tree Yggdrasil , was dying and the Valkyries were disappearing, preventing Siegfried from returning after falling in battle. Diana committed to solving why this is happening, with the help of Ratatosk and Deadman, who was trying to get Diana to Olympus. [ 160 ] Diana learned that Dr. Cizko had discovered a way to enter the Sphere of the Gods. Under interrogation, he directed her to the serpent Nidhogg whom Diana defeated through trickery. Retrieving the key to the Fortress of the Valkyries, she departed for the fortress with the help of Odin , but not before defeating a dark reflection of herself controlled by Dr. Cizko. [ 161 ] [ 162 ] When she arrived at the fortress, the Valkyries told Diana they were tired of escorting countless souls to the afterlife. They were then interrupted by Thor , but Diana defeated him and learned that he was under the influence of Dr. Cizko, who she forced out of the Sphere of the Gods. They reached a deal with the Valkyries, that they would help souls to the afterlife, which kept Yggdrasil healthy. Siegfried returned and, after spending the night with him, she arrived in Olympus with Ratatosk only to discover it in ruins. [ 163 ]
Diana and Ratatosk looked for survivors but found only the Roman god Janus . Janus explained that his other half, stole a weapon that could kill a god, the God Scraper , and killed the gods one by one. Diana contacted Deadman and met him in the Graveyard of souls, in order to attempt to bring back the gods. [ 164 ] There she defeated the Keeper of the Grounds in a battle of wits and brought the gods back. She then set off to Satyrs' Grove and went through the well to Elfhame in search of Janus' other half. [ 165 ]
In the land of Elfhame Diana encountered Gwyn , king of the faeries, who accused her of murdering their queen . After they took her and Ratatosk prisoner, she discovered that Janus' other half had taken her appearance and killed the queen of Elfhame. After Siegfried arrived to help Diana on the request of Ratatosk, they rescued Ratatosk and left to go back to Earth to stop Janus there. [ 166 ]
To Diana's shock, she discovered she didn't arrive at Prime Earth, but rather Earth-11 . While meeting with the Justice Guild , Deadman informed them at Janus' other half was on Earth-11. Wonder Man , freed by Janus' other half, interrupted the meeting and attacked the Justice Guild. At that time Janus' other half arrived and battled Diana where she revealed she was behind Dr. Cizko's appearance in the sphere of the gods. Janus' other half who escaped with Deadman through a portal created by the God Scraper, and escaped to another dimension, with Diana, Ratatosk, and Siegfried in hot pursuit. [ 167 ]
Diana, Ratatosk and Siegfried journeyed through the multiverse to places including the Phantom Zone, Zrfff , and prehistoric Earth. They caught up with Janus' other half in the In-Between , where Janus' other half seemingly killed Deadman with the God Scraper. [ 168 ] Janus' other half began fighting Diana and eventually gained the upper hand, but Diana was saved by the intervention of Siegfried. During their battle Diana was able to revive Deadman with the lasso gifted to her by Valkyries, and eventually the the Divine Mothers appeared and restrained Janus' other half. Zeus, Hermes, a Valkyrie, Janus, and Deadman arrived. Janus froze time to explain that he was the one who was behind his other half's attacks, as he let her separate herself from him in order for there to be a world without a future. Diana was able to defeat Janus and chose to turn down godhood with her kin to return home. Using the God Scraper, Diana opened a portal within herself and returned to Earth. [ 169 ]
Through a Glass Darkly
Steve and Etta watched a documentary about Wonder Woman that Steve created in order to help preserve her memory. After that they parted for the night, as news started to break out over the internet that Wonder Woman had returned. [ 25 ]
Diana reappeared in the Hall of Justice where she was greeted by many Justice League members such as Martian Manhunter, Superman, Batman, Black Canary, and many others. Almost immediately Doctor Fate asked for Diana's aid with a Justice League Dark matter, but she was pulled aside first for a conversation by Hippolyta who had been serving as Diana's replacement in the League. Polly questioned Diana's decision to not stay on Olympus but warmly welcomed her back and asked her to rest. Diana relented and heads to Themyscira to rest, but Diana found a sinking ship in the ocean and rescued it. Emergency responders recognized her and shared videos they took of her on the internet. As the news of Diana's return broke out, several of Diana's friends and allies all over the world, while Doctor Psycho spoke to someone on the phone in order to plot their next move. Themyscira held a celebration for Diana's return. [ 170 ]
Diana stopped a robbery on her way to meet Etta to visit a museum exhibit about Themyscira. While Diana is delayed, Etta meets a mysterious stranger named Altuum . Once Diana arrived Etta had to leave for work so Diana entered the exhibit alone but she is also approached by Altuum. Altuum explained he and his people the Enki were the original inhabitants of Themyscira's island until the gods forced them to live under water so that the island could be given to the Amazons. Altuum had been planning on taking the island back when he learned of Diana's death, but with her return he decided to confront her. They began to fight but Diana quickly gained the upper hand so he exploded a bomb he planted in the museum in order to escape. Diana relayed all of this to Etta the next day, but as she said goodbye to Etta, Altuum texted Diana hinting that a threat is coming to Themyscira that will cause Amazons to fight each other. [ 171 ]
Diana and Etta saw Doctor Psycho giving an interview on TV and Diana decided to confront him to determine what his scheme was. After a hostile meeting in which Psycho threatened Diana again, Psycho controlled a man into threatening suicide to make Diana leave. Diana went to ask Deadman to help her return Siegfried 's sword Gram to his grave. Meanwhile, Steve was attacked by mirror version of Wonder Woman and called to ask for her aid once dispatching the doppelganger. Meanwhile, Doctor Psycho acquired a magical artifact for his plot. Deadman and Diana boarded a commercial plane bound for near Siegfried's grave, but the plane is attacked by Mirror clones of Diana. [ 172 ]
Diana and Deadman dispatched the clones and Deadman made everyone on the plane forget what happened. The next day Diana called Steve back after recieving his message but the call is disconnected. Doctor Pyscho hosted a TV show where he claimed to raise the spirits of the dead, which Etta watched before Steve called her to inform her that footage from Diana's plane attack was found and they need to prioritize getting to the bottom of the mirror clones. Diana and Deadman returned Gram to Siegfried's grave but Steve called Diana back to Washington DC for help as the mirror clones attacked. It was revealed that Image-Maker was behind the clones. [ 173 ]
Doctor Psycho prepared a warrior he called Shining Knight to do battle. Diana and Deadman split up as they battled the clones, but they soon reunite with Etta and Steve as well. The four are attacked by The Shining Knight which Diana fended off as the others escaped, but  Diana and the Knight were then attacked by the Wonder Woman Mirror clones. The two formed a brief alliance in order to defeated the clones, as Hippolyta is attacked by a Mirror Clone, which she quickly defeated. [ 174 ]
As Diana tracked down the source of the Mirror Clones and confronted Image-Maker. He attempted to trap her in an illusion but she overcame it and defeated him. Deadman then delivered Gram to Diana so she could defeated The Shining Knight but seeing the sword diabled the Knight allowing Diana to lasso him and free the Knight from Mind Control, revealing himself to be Siegfried. Diana is called to Themyscira by Nubia as Doctor Psycho created a new Villainy Inc . for his next plot. [ 175 ]
Trial of the Amazons
Trial of the Amazons
Diana returned to Themyscira for a contest to determine who would guard Doom's Doorway . She was surprised to learn that the hidden tribe of Amazons called the Esquecida decided to join the contest themselves. After a tense confrontation with Queen Faruka, she joined the feast where it was announced that whoever won the contest would win the right for their leader to claim the crown of Themyscira. [ 176 ] After the death of her mother, Diana grieved with the rest of the Amazons and her mother's lover, Philippus . Diana attended a meeting between all the leaders of the Amazon tribes where it was decided that the contest would continue, and that Cassie Sandsmark would investigate who was behind Hippolyta's murder. Later, Diana confronted Nubia, telling her that she would use the Lasso of Truth to find the murderer. [ 177 ]
Diana demanded that Faruka, Atalanta, Nubia, Artemis, and even her former pupils Donna Troy and Cassie submit to being questioned while bound by the Lasso. The women rejected being forced to submit to the Lasso, prompting Nubia to talk with Diana in private at Hippolyta's resting place. Diana was angry that Nubia agreed with the other women, and resolved to find the murderer on her own. To that end she traveled to the Temple of Athena to beseech the Gods to show her who was responsible, when no vision came a shadowy figure told Diana that she was putting her desire for vengeance above her duty, before disappearing. Diana, feeling that she needed to finish her mother's work of uniting the Amazon tribes, decided to give her lasso to Nubia, and entrust the investigation to her niece, Cassie. She later decided she would represent all Amazons at the contest. [ 178 ]
Before the contest could begin, a horn blew that collapsed the ground and led to tunnels even Philippus was unaware of. The contestants descended through the tunnels and encountered Echidna . The Amazons were able to defeat the monster, but the tunnel began to collapse. Diana told her companions to flee to warn the other Amazons that Chaos had arrived. [ 179 ] Diana was able to force her way out of the rubble and was able to beat Donna, Yara Flor , and Philippus to the arena. Together, the Amazons were stunned to watch Doom's Doorway began to break open. [ 180 ]
Diana and the other Amazons battled Chaos, as Diana and the Amazons started to lose ground, Diana's aunts, Antiope (who was the one who advised Diana at the Temple of Athena) and Atalanta, absorbed Chaos and went through Doom's Doorway, sealing it behind them. Diana grieved for her aunts and mother with her step-mother, Philippus, and later talked to Yara and brought her to the Tiar-mory, where Diana kept several of her tiaras that she had worn over the years. She then proceeded to destroy Yara's tiara and gifted her a new tiara with three stars to represent the three Amazon tribes. As she crowned her, she gave her the title of Wonder Girl, much to Yara's chagrin. Diana then joined the feast where Faruka acknowledged Nubia as queen of all the Amazons. [ 181 ]
The Villainy of our Fears
Diana battles The Villainy, Inc
Feral
Diana helps to reform Cheetah
Before The Storm
Diana & Wonder Girl battles Eros
Lazarus Planet
Diana gains the powers of Shazam
Dawn of DC
Knight Terrors
Diana battles her nightmares
Absolute Power
Diana & every other hero are powerless
All In
What is the point of Steve Trevor?
Diana sculpts her new daughter
Fury
Diana confronts Sovereign & The US Government
A Rock & A Hard Place
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Divine Empowerment : Diana has abilities which exceed even those of the typical Amazon as, after leaving for Man's World, she was gifted with various powers by the Gods of Olympus. Superhuman Strength : Granted by Demeter (Goddess of the Earth). Diana is literally as strong as the Earth because of her link to the planet granted to her. [ citation needed ] She can easily lift and throw 55-ton tanks [ 7 ] and some of her greatest feats of physical prowess have included matching Darkseid's sheer strength and making him bleed with the power of her blows, [ 115 ] overpowering a mind-controlled Supergirl [ 118 ] or lifting the Washington Monument (weighting eighty thousand tons) and throwing it into the air with enough power to topple Giganta. [ 182 ] Superhuman Durability : Diana has a high resistance to damage and magical attacks. Her resistance to injury is not quite as great as Superman or Supergirl. However, due to her vast threshold for pain and her Amazonian ability to heal at a superhuman rate, this easily makes up for the difference. She has withstood considerable bludgeoning damage in the form of hand to hand combat with metahuman opponents such as Superman, Shazam [ 79 ] or Darkseid. [ 115 ] She has considerable resistance to human weaponry, though this is not absolute; bullets and edged weapons can cause minor to moderate injury, but never life threatening. [ 97 ] Whether or not however she can survive bullets to vital areas is disputable. She was once wounded by a hail of bullets that bounced off Superman and hit her neck. [ 183 ] Alternatively, she also survived being shot by an Eighth Metal bullet to the head. [ 184 ] Flight : Gifted unto her by the messenger god Hermes, Diana possesses the power to fly at high speeds. [ 38 ] Superhuman Speed : Granted by Hermes (the Messenger God). She is able to think, react, and move at superhuman speeds. Thanks to her understanding of the mechanics of running she is one of the fastest beings on the planet. [ 185 ] Superhuman Reflexes : Wonder Woman possesses almost instantaneous reflexes. One of her most iconic displays of reactivity is her ability to intercept bullets with her Bracelets of Submission. [ 7 ] Superhuman Agility Superhuman Stamina : Wonder Woman possesses incredible endurance in all physical activities and can keep fighting for hours or even after suffering grievous injuries. [ 7 ] Accelerated Healing : In the rare event of suffering a serious injury, Diana can heal from mild to moderate injuries at an amazing rate. Her normal regenerative abilities allow her to recover from injury within seconds to minutes. She possesses an incredible immunity from poisons, toxins, as well as disease. Enhanced Senses Enhanced Hearing Enhanced Vision Enhanced Sense of Smell Animal Empathy : Diana has the ability to communicate with all forms of animals [ 186 ] and her presence alone can bring a raging beast to a calm standstill. She is also able to directly command wild animals when needed. [ citation needed ] Immortality : As a demigoddess and an Amazon, Wonder Woman does not age beyond her prime. [ 187 ]
Superhuman Strength : Granted by Demeter (Goddess of the Earth). Diana is literally as strong as the Earth because of her link to the planet granted to her. [ citation needed ] She can easily lift and throw 55-ton tanks [ 7 ] and some of her greatest feats of physical prowess have included matching Darkseid's sheer strength and making him bleed with the power of her blows, [ 115 ] overpowering a mind-controlled Supergirl [ 118 ] or lifting the Washington Monument (weighting eighty thousand tons) and throwing it into the air with enough power to topple Giganta. [ 182 ]
Superhuman Durability : Diana has a high resistance to damage and magical attacks. Her resistance to injury is not quite as great as Superman or Supergirl. However, due to her vast threshold for pain and her Amazonian ability to heal at a superhuman rate, this easily makes up for the difference. She has withstood considerable bludgeoning damage in the form of hand to hand combat with metahuman opponents such as Superman, Shazam [ 79 ] or Darkseid. [ 115 ] She has considerable resistance to human weaponry, though this is not absolute; bullets and edged weapons can cause minor to moderate injury, but never life threatening. [ 97 ] Whether or not however she can survive bullets to vital areas is disputable. She was once wounded by a hail of bullets that bounced off Superman and hit her neck. [ 183 ] Alternatively, she also survived being shot by an Eighth Metal bullet to the head. [ 184 ]
Flight : Gifted unto her by the messenger god Hermes, Diana possesses the power to fly at high speeds. [ 38 ]
Superhuman Speed : Granted by Hermes (the Messenger God). She is able to think, react, and move at superhuman speeds. Thanks to her understanding of the mechanics of running she is one of the fastest beings on the planet. [ 185 ]
Superhuman Reflexes : Wonder Woman possesses almost instantaneous reflexes. One of her most iconic displays of reactivity is her ability to intercept bullets with her Bracelets of Submission. [ 7 ]
Superhuman Agility
Superhuman Stamina : Wonder Woman possesses incredible endurance in all physical activities and can keep fighting for hours or even after suffering grievous injuries. [ 7 ]
Accelerated Healing : In the rare event of suffering a serious injury, Diana can heal from mild to moderate injuries at an amazing rate. Her normal regenerative abilities allow her to recover from injury within seconds to minutes. She possesses an incredible immunity from poisons, toxins, as well as disease.
Enhanced Senses Enhanced Hearing Enhanced Vision Enhanced Sense of Smell
Enhanced Hearing
Enhanced Vision
Enhanced Sense of Smell
Animal Empathy : Diana has the ability to communicate with all forms of animals [ 186 ] and her presence alone can bring a raging beast to a calm standstill. She is also able to directly command wild animals when needed. [ citation needed ]
Immortality : As a demigoddess and an Amazon, Wonder Woman does not age beyond her prime. [ 187 ]
Magic : When she was a child, Diana was marked by the goddess Hecate and bestowed with a fraction of her magical ability. [ 125 ] This power lay dormant until it was activated by the Upside-Down Man. Zatanna remarked that Wonder Woman's magical power was unlike anything she had ever seen or felt, and Diana possessed at least enough power to cast out the Upside-Down Man, an immensely powerful demon, from the world. [ 124 ] After the Justice League Dark defeated Hecate, the Witchmarked's power was taken from them and absorbed by Circe. [ 128 ]
Reality Alteration : When Diana was empowered with the World Forge and the Anti-Crisis Energy , she had enough might to shake stars and phase throughout time through sheer strength. She had displayed the ability to shrink an entire planet and was able to link everyone together and restored their memories as one history—one universe. Cosmic Awareness Precognition Retrocognition
Cosmic Awareness
Precognition
Retrocognition
Abilities
Artistry : Diana is quite skilled at sculpture, as when she sculpted a life-size statue of the late Steve Trevor. [ 188 ]
Aviation : Wonder Woman pilots her invisible jet with expert proficiency.
Genius Level Intellect : Diana has great wisdom and intelligence. She knows possesses great knowledge in various different fields such as combat and She is among the smartest and wisest members of the Justice League. Diplomacy Leadership Multilingualism : Wonder Woman spoke only her native Themysciran until she ventured into Man's World. She learned English within days due to the Lasso of Truth's powers of language translation. [ 189 ] She later displayed mastery of the Almeracian language. [ 190 ]
Diplomacy
Leadership
Multilingualism : Wonder Woman spoke only her native Themysciran until she ventured into Man's World. She learned English within days due to the Lasso of Truth's powers of language translation. [ 189 ] She later displayed mastery of the Almeracian language. [ 190 ]
Equestrianism : Diana is a great horse rider; her favorite mount is her mare Kachi . [ 15 ]
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Advanced) : Diana is the finest warrior ever born among the Amazons of Themyscira. She is a master of armed and unarmed combat and is highly skilled in the exotic martial arts styles of the Amazons.
Tactical Analysis
Weaponry : Wonder Woman is proficient with nearly every weapon ever made, especially the bow, the sword and the javelin. Archery : Diana is an incredible archer, being able to hit multiple moving targets by shooting multiple arrows at once. [ 191 ] Swordsmanship Throwing : Diana can throw her tiara with incredible accuracy, being easily able to take down multiple armed opponents with a single throw. [ 192 ]
Archery : Diana is an incredible archer, being able to hit multiple moving targets by shooting multiple arrows at once. [ 191 ]
Swordsmanship
Throwing : Diana can throw her tiara with incredible accuracy, being easily able to take down multiple armed opponents with a single throw. [ 192 ]
Indomitable Will : Diana possesses an incredible willpower that allowed her to resist the Lasso of Lies [ 193 ] and months of isolation without being broken. [ 186 ] Her immense willpower makes her immune to the telepathy of Gorilla Grodd , who had the telepathic power of his past self and Martian Manhunter combined in addition to his own. [ 194 ]
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Bracelets of Submission : Two magic bracelets that can deflect both projectiles and blunt attacks. The Bracelets are comprised of the godly Eighth Metal, one of the strongest elements in the Multiverse. [ 184 ] They are almost indestructible capable of withstanding, even deflecting; such force as Darkseid's Omega Beams . [ 195 ] In the false life Diana had lived the god of the forge; Hephaestus, had modified her bracelets with the ability to manifest any number of weaponry she desires. [ 41 ] [ 49 ] [ 55 ] [ 58 ] After her bracelets were destroyed by Cheetah, Diana went on to use Hippolyta's old Eighth Metal manacles and reforged them using Amazonium to fill in the seams, the same ones that were shattered by Herakles when he dominated the Amazons. [ 20 ]
After her bracelets were destroyed by Cheetah, Diana went on to use Hippolyta's old Eighth Metal manacles and reforged them using Amazonium to fill in the seams, the same ones that were shattered by Herakles when he dominated the Amazons. [ 20 ]
Lasso of Truth : The Lasso, also referred to as the Golden Perfect, is a sacred relic of the Amazons and was given to them by the Gods of Olympus. It was bestowed to Wonder Woman when she embarked to Man's World. The Lasso's most known power is to force anyone ensnared by it to speak only the truth. It also possesses a number of other magical abilities. The Lasso is capable of tethering the hearts and minds of the individuals holding it, creating a telepathic link between them, as well as allowing for language translation. [ 196 ] It can also be used to bind and ensnare the souls of beings, including even gods, within it. [ 98 ] [ 197 ] Diana can use the Perfect to locate individuals who share an emotional connection to her. It can also be used to force a biophysical reset of those who have been corrupted by some external influence, such as poisons and toxins or mind control, who are bound by it. [ 18 ] [ 102 ] Diana is highly proficient at using the Lasso of Truth as both a tool and a weapon, and is capable of easily binding people and objects using it.
Wonder Woman's Tiara
Atlantiades' Armor : As the new God of Love, Atlantiades can bestow favors on their protégés, such as the powerful armor endowed with the strength of the Erotes that they temporarily gave to Diana. [ 198 ]
Transportation
Invisible Plane : Wonder Woman possesses an airplane capable of rendering itself completely invisible to the human eye. Like her bracelets, Diana's invisible plane is forged with Eighth Metal, making it almost indestructible. [ 199 ] The Invisible Plane was originally the aircraft Steve Trevor crashed onto Themyscira; it was repaired by the Amazons and upgraded with their technology. [ 16 ] [ 200 ]
Weapons
Magical Sword : A sword forged by Hephaestus, said to be sharp enough to cut the electrons off an atom.
Qwardian Power Ring (Formerly) : As a warrior goddess and the goddess of war Diana was aptly chosen to be a temporary member of the Sinestro Corps. [ 201 ]
Shield of Alcippe [ 20 ]
Star Sapphire Ring (Formerly) : Diana first wielded the Violet Lantern Ring when she served with the Star Sapphire Corps during the Blackest Night. She was later recruited as temporary leader of the Star Sapphires during a crisis on Zamaron and wore the ring once more. After the conflict, Diana retired from the Corps to continue her mission on Earth. [ 119 ]
Sunblade (Formerly) : The sword created by Hephaestus for Apollo at the dawn of human civilization, as one of the twelve weapons created for each member of the Gods of Olympus. When the Olympians had abandoned their old home, Wonder Woman, then its owner, became the sole owner of their entire arsenal. [ 202 ] But at the behaste of the smithing god, Hephaestus, Diana willingly gave the Sunblade to Batman. [ 203 ]
Sword of Exoristos [ 20 ]
Themysciran Shield : Wonder Woman often wields a Themysciran shield to deflect heavy weaponry.
Notes
Wonder Woman was created by William Moulton Marston and Harry G. Peter , first appearing  in All-Star Comics #8 . However, Wonder Woman first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #1 by Brian Azzarello and Cliff Chiang .
Diana's canonical age varies greatly throughout the comics. She was initially stated to be 23 years old, [ 37 ] but later established to have been born in the classical antiquity. [ 204 ] More recently Diana was shown reading Alice's Adventures in Wonderland during her childhood, which was published in 1865, indicating she was born within the last 200 years. [ 205 ]
Wonder Woman's height and weight were originally given as 6'0" and 165 lbs. [ 206 ] [ 207 ] This was later amended to 6'2" and 175 lbs. [ 208 ]
Wonder Woman's parentage was a divisive retcon in the New 52 (2011). Rather than sculpted from clay and granted life by several goddesses, she is now the bastard child of Zeus , and the clay doll was created as a cover story by Hippolyta to shield her from Hera . Though much of this era of comics was established as an induced false memory in Rebirth (2016), Diana's status as a demigoddess remained. [ 206 ] [ 207 ] During the All In branding (2024), author Tom King reintroduced references to her clay-only origin. [ 209 ] [ 210 ] He elaborated he chose to use this origin from both personal preference and a storytelling perspective, as he used it to mirror the birth of Diana's own daughter, Lizzie , from clay. [ 211 ] This origin was also referenced outside of King's arc, like Phil Jimenez ' Titans. [ 212 ] What this means to Zeus's parentage and characters associated with this plot point, like Diana's twin brother Jason , is unclear.
In pre- Crisis continuity, the Golden Age Wonder Woman and Steve Trevor had a daughter, Hippolyta Trevor . When Wonder Woman's Golden Age history was negated post- Crisis , Helena Kosmatos was introduced to take her place. In modern continuity, Wonder Woman's Golden Age career [ 20 ] and Helena Kosmatos [ 22 ] coexist, making Hippolyta Trevor 's parentage ambiguous. However, recent works have retconned that away, establishing Hippolyta as the true Golden Age Wonder Woman [ 213 ] , similar to Post-Crisis, seemingly resolving the ambiguity.
Trivia
Like all Amazons, Wonder Woman uses no sexual orientation labels, and none seem adequate to identify her (as well as her sisters), even though she has fallen in love with both women and men. [ 214 ]
She has a pet kangaroo named Jumpa [ 215 ] and befriended a megalodon named Hookswift as a child, whom she thought of as an older sister. [ 20 ]
Related
Appearances of Wonder Woman (Diana Prince)
Images featuring Wonder Woman (Diana Prince)
Quotations by or about Wonder Woman (Diana Prince)
Character Gallery: Wonder Woman (Diana Prince)
Footnotes
↑ Wonder Woman #750
↑ Batman: The Brave and the Bold (Volume 2) #19
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #82
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #32
↑ 5.0 5.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #3
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #4
↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #2
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #6
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #21
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #14
↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 11.3 11.4 11.5 New History of the DC Universe #2
↑ Nubia and the Amazons #1
↑ Wonder Woman: The Adventures of Young Diana Special #1
↑ 14.0 14.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #73
↑ 15.0 15.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #2
↑ 16.0 16.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #4
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #6
↑ 18.0 18.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #14
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #16
↑ 20.0 20.1 20.2 20.3 20.4 20.5 20.6 Wonder Woman #750
↑ FCBD Dark Crisis Special Edition #0
↑ 22.0 22.1 Tales of the Titans #3
↑ World's Finest: Teen Titans #2
↑ World's Finest: Teen Titans #1
↑ 25.0 25.1 25.2 Wonder Woman 80th Anniversary 100-Page Super Spectacular #1
↑ Heroes in Crisis #3
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #51
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #1
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #2
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #4
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #5
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #6
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #7
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #8
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #9
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #10
↑ 37.0 37.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #11
↑ 38.0 38.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #12
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #13
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #14
↑ 41.0 41.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #15
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #16
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #17
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #18
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #19
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #20
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #21
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #22
↑ 49.0 49.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #23
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #24
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #25
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #26
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #27
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #28
↑ 55.0 55.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #29
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #30
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #31
↑ 58.0 58.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #32
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #33
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #34
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #0
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #35
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #36
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #37
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #38
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #39
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #40
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 4) #41
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #12
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #14
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #1
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #2
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #3
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #4
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #5
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #6
↑ Superman/Wonder Woman #7
↑ Action Comics #978
↑ 79.0 79.1 Justice League (Volume 2) #22
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #6
↑ Justice League Dark #22
↑ Justice League Dark #23
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #7
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #23
↑ Forever Evil #3
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #8
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #9
↑ Forever Evil #7
↑ Wonder Woman: Rebirth #1
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #1
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #3
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #7
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #11
↑ 94.0 94.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #13
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #17
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #19
↑ 97.0 97.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #21
↑ 98.0 98.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #23
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #24
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #25
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #26
↑ 102.0 102.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #27
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #28
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #29
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #30
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #31
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #32
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #34
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #36
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #37
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #38
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #40
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #41
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #42
↑ 115.0 115.1 115.2 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #44
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #45
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #46
↑ 118.0 118.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #47
↑ 119.0 119.1 Wonder Woman Annual (Volume 5) #2
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #49
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #50
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #1
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #2
↑ 124.0 124.1 Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #3
↑ 125.0 125.1 Wonder Woman and Justice League Dark: The Witching Hour #1
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #56
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #4
↑ 128.0 128.1 Justice League Dark and Wonder Woman: The Witching Hour #1
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #6
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #7
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #8
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #9
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #10
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #11
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #12
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #13
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #14
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #15
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #16
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #18
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #19
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #51
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #52
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #53
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #54
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #55
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #58
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #72
↑ Doomsday Clock #9
↑ Doomsday Clock #11
↑ Doomsday Clock #12
↑ Wonder Woman #751
↑ Wonder Woman #759
↑ Wonder Woman #760
↑ Wonder Woman #761
↑ Wonder Woman #762
↑ Wonder Woman #763
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal The Secret Origin #1
↑ Dark Nights: Death Metal #7
↑ Wonder Woman #770
↑ Wonder Woman #771
↑ Wonder Woman #772
↑ Wonder Woman #773
↑ Wonder Woman #774
↑ Wonder Woman #775
↑ Wonder Woman #776
↑ Wonder Woman #777
↑ Wonder Woman #778
↑ Wonder Woman #779
↑ Wonder Woman #780
↑ Wonder Woman 2021 Annual #1
↑ Wonder Woman #781
↑ Wonder Woman #782
↑ Wonder Woman #783
↑ Wonder Woman #784
↑ Trial of the Amazons #1
↑ Nubia and the Amazons #6
↑ Wonder Woman #785
↑ Wonder Woman #786
↑ Trial of the Amazons: Wonder Girl #2
↑ Trial of the Amazons #2
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #6
↑ Justice League (Volume 3) #41
↑ 184.0 184.1 Dark Nights: Metal #5
↑ DC Nation (Volume 2) #2
↑ 186.0 186.1 Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #9
↑ DC Nation (Volume 2) #4
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #17
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #12
↑ Wonder Woman #754
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #5
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #3
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #8
↑ Justice League Unlimited (Volume 2) #6
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #6
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #10
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #55
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #81
↑ Dark Nights: Metal #4
↑ Wonder Woman 75th Anniversary Special #1
↑ Sinestro #18
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 4) #7
↑ Dark Days: The Casting #1
↑ Justice League: The Darkseid War Special #1
↑ Wonder Woman #787
↑ 206.0 206.1 DC Comics Encyclopedia: All-New Edition
↑ 207.0 207.1 DC Comics Encyclopedia: New Edition
↑ Wonder Woman #794
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #6
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 6) #14
↑ " The Creators of Wonder Woman's Daughter Spill Details About Trinity's Origin (& What's Coming Next) " at Screenrant
↑ Titans 2025 Annual (Volume 4) #1
↑ New History of the DC Universe #1
↑ Greg Rucka on Queer Narrative and WONDER WOMAN | Comicosity
↑ Batman (Volume 3) #40
Black Lantern Corps member This character is or was a member of the Black Lantern Corps . Those who have died may wield the Black Power Ring , symbolizing their lack of both life and emotion. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Black Lantern Corps members category."
This character is or was a member of the Female Furies , an elite team of evil female warriors from the planet Apokolips who serve Darkseid . This template will categorize articles that include it into the category " Female Furies members ."
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
Justice Society of America member This character has been a primary member of the Justice Society of America in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice Society of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Sinestro Corps , chosen by Sinestro to counteract the Green Lantern Corps and spread terror throughout their sector with a Power Ring . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Sinestro Corps members category."
This character is or was a member of the Star Sapphire Corps , chosen by the Zamarons to spread love throughout their sector with a Power Ring . This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Star Sapphire Corps members category."

Zatanna Zatara (Prime Earth)
Zatanna Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present Gallery Real Name Zatanna Zatara Main Alias Zatanna Other Aliases Mistress of Magic [ 1 ] Sorceress Supreme [ 2 ] Relatives John Zatara (father, deceased), Sindella (mother, deceased), Zach Zatara (cousin) Affiliation Justice League Dark · Justice League Unlimited · Formerly Seven Soldiers · Justice League: Team Wonder · Lords of Chaos · Bizarro League Base Of Operations Shadowcrest · Hall of Justice , Washington, D.C. · Formerly House of Mystery Status Alignment Good Identity Public Identity Race Homo Magi Citizenship American Marital Status Single Occupation Stage Magician Characteristics Gender Female Eyes Blue Hair Black Origin Universe Prime Earth Creators Julius Schwartz · Gardner Fox · Murphy Anderson First Appearance Justice League Dark #1 ( November, 2011 )
Zatanna
Mainstream Universe‎‎ , 2011‎ -present
Real Name
Main Alias
Other Aliases
Magic [ 1 ] Sorceress Supreme [ 2 ]
Relatives
Affiliation
Base Of Operations
Status
Alignment
Identity
Race
Citizenship
Marital Status
Occupation
Characteristics
Gender
Eyes
Hair
Origin
Universe
Creators
Zatanna Zatara is a powerful Homo Magi . She is an important member of the Justice League and the Justice League Dark , using her magic to fight dark magic threats.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin 1.2 Justice League Dark 1.2.1 In the Dark 1.2.2 Rise of the Vampires 1.2.3 The Black Room 1.2.4 The War for the Books of Magic 1.2.5 The Death of Magic 1.2.6 Trinity War 1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 The Last Age of Magic 1.3.2 The Witching Hour 1.3.3 The Lords of Order 1.3.4 Doomsday Clock 1.3.5 The Witching War 1.3.6 The Parliaments of Life 1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Dark Crisis 1.4.2 Lazarus Planet 1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors
1.1 Origin
1.2 Justice League Dark 1.2.1 In the Dark 1.2.2 Rise of the Vampires 1.2.3 The Black Room 1.2.4 The War for the Books of Magic 1.2.5 The Death of Magic 1.2.6 Trinity War
1.2.1 In the Dark
1.2.2 Rise of the Vampires
1.2.3 The Black Room
1.2.4 The War for the Books of Magic
1.2.5 The Death of Magic
1.2.6 Trinity War
1.3 DC Rebirth 1.3.1 The Last Age of Magic 1.3.2 The Witching Hour 1.3.3 The Lords of Order 1.3.4 Doomsday Clock 1.3.5 The Witching War 1.3.6 The Parliaments of Life
1.3.1 The Last Age of Magic
1.3.2 The Witching Hour
1.3.3 The Lords of Order
1.3.4 Doomsday Clock
1.3.5 The Witching War
1.3.6 The Parliaments of Life
1.4 Infinite Frontier 1.4.1 Dark Crisis 1.4.2 Lazarus Planet
1.4.1 Dark Crisis
1.4.2 Lazarus Planet
1.5 Dawn of DC 1.5.1 Knight Terrors
1.5.1 Knight Terrors
2 Powers and Abilities 2.1 Powers 2.2 Abilities 2.3 Weaknesses
2.1 Powers
2.2 Abilities
2.3 Weaknesses
3 Paraphernalia 3.1 Equipment 3.2 Transportation
3.1 Equipment
3.2 Transportation
4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 Related
7 External Links 7.1 Footnotes
7.1 Footnotes
History
Origin
Zatanna Zatara was the daughter of the famed magician Giovanni "John" Zatara and of the Homo Magi Sindella . During her childhood, she was taught by her father not only the skills of a stage magician and illusionist that she would later use in her work as a performer, but also the art of practicing true magic through speaking words backwards. [ 3 ] A specific incident that marked her childhood was when she attempted to ressurect a dead rabbit, an action that forced her father to absorb the price of the spell into himself, causing him to be greatly weakened. This taught the young Zatanna something she'd never forget about magic, that there is always a cost. [ 4 ]
When a young Bruce Wayne , whom she had previously met as a child due to her father's friendship with his parents , came to Giovanni in order to study stage magic and escape artistry, as part of his mission around the world to learn all sorts of skills useful to his future war on crime, Zatanna developed a crush on him, and revealed to him the real magic her family could wield in an attempt to impress him, which included showing off a particularly dangerous magical object, the Gnosis Sphere. Her father caught them in the act during a meeting with Ra's al Ghul and, believing this to be a foolish and impulsive choice, erased Bruce's memories of this event, while stressing that this secret could later be revealed to the boy in a more responsible way. [ 5 ] Towards the end of his travels, Bruce returned to New York City to study with Giovanni once more, while he was in a very bad place over the loss of his wife, drinking heavily, and in constant conflict with his daughter. During this time, Zatanna started going out with Bruce once more, even if she was upset over how he failed to stay in touch with her over the years. While there, a demon called Shantoz, who fed on the souls of those with broken hearts, revealed to Bruce the existence of real magic once more, this time for good. Zatanna, using Bruce's trauma as bait, managed to defeat the demon, reconnecting with her father in the process. [ 6 ] Around this time, Zatanna and Bruce used a spell to unify their thoughts in an attempt to get closer in their relationship, which resulted in them becoming inadvertently bonded, being forced to spend the next few decades having regular meetings in order to contain the arcane chaos their mistake wrought. [ 7 ]
At some point, Zatanna began to use her magical abilities as a superhero, and joined the Justice League during a time in which they had an orbital satellite headquarters . She worked alongside her old friend Bruce, now the crime-fighter Batman , Wonder Woman , Superman , Black Canary , Hawkgirl , Red Tornado , Elongated Man and many more. [ 8 ] [ 3 ] [ 9 ]
She was once in a relationship with the powerful mage Nick Necros in New York City . John Constantine came to the city to study under Nick, who became obsessed with the search for the Books of Magic. As a result of his obsession, John and Zatanna were alienated from him, and fell in love with each other. Nick felt betrayed, and tried to have them both killed by the Cult of the Cold Flame. Fortunately, they turned the tables, and his soul was sent to hell. [ 10 ] Eventually, though, John characteristically broke her heart. Their relationship was further strained by the fact that one of his schemes intended to save the world, a séance that intended to stop the Great Darkness before it consumed everything, resulted in her father and another sorcerer burning to death before her eyes. [ 11 ] [ 3 ] [ 12 ] This event left Zatanna with a distrust of the Doom Patrol , due to the fact that one of its members, the telepath Mento , was present during the séance, looking at her with a demented look in his eyes as she held her dead father's hand. [ 13 ]
At some point after that, Zatanna joined another disastrous séance that cost the lives of magicians Ibis the Invincible , Taia and Timothy Ravenwind [ 13 ] , all as part of a greater plan to prevent Gloriana Tenebrae and her Sheeda hordes from ransacking Earth. She managed to succeed in doing so without ever meeting the other six unconnected people who were integral to this effort, only banding together as a proper team, the Seven Soldiers , much later, with her as their leader. [ 14 ]
Justice League Dark
In the Dark
Some time later, after discovering that the Enchantress had become a threat to reality itself, Zatanna reunited with Constantine in Madame Xanadu 's so-called Justice League Dark , along with Shade and Boston Brand . [ 15 ] Xanadu had seen an apocalyptic future, which she warned would come to pass if they did not all join together in fighting the Enchantress. As it happened, the Enchantress was seeking to reunite herself with June Moone , the human aspect of herself. Eventually, John Constantine and Mindwarp managed to bring about a series of events that led to the pair's merging. When they realized that the whole ordeal was caused by Xanadu having split the Enchantress from June Moone in the first place, they team disbanded. [ 16 ]
Rise of the Vampires
However, nightmares soon drove Zatanna and the others to reconvene under Xanadu, who explained that the dreams were possible futures that would come about if they did not remain a team. [ 17 ] Their next mission fell into their laps, as not long after regrouping, they discovered that Andrew Bennett 's untimely death had lead to the unleashing of an even older vampire called Cain , who had the power to absorb magic. While Constantine and Deadman searched for Andrew in the afterlife, Zatanna and the others fought off hordes of vampires in Gotham City . [ 18 ]
The Black Room
After Andrew returned and absorbed Cain's powers, the Team decided to part ways yet again. However, when John Constantine was contacted by Steve Trevor to locate a mystical artifact, he came to Zatanna for help. In exchange for his help, John had been promised entry to A.R.G.U.S. ' Black Room, a place where mystical items were collected and protected by the US Government. John told Zatanna that he had seen her father's hat in a photo of the Black Room, and begged her to help him convince the others to reform the team. After gaining two new team members from A.R.G.U.S. and with Andrew Bennett's help, the team located Felix Faust in South America . There, they discovered that the item they were sent to find was in fact, the map to the Books of Magic . [ 19 ]
John wanted to seek out the Books with the map, but none of his team agreed. Zatanna intended to quit—especially after discovering that the tale of her father's hat was a ruse—but Deadman convinced her that if the two of them did not stay no one would be able to make sure that John didn't get corrupted by the Books when he found them himself. Regardless, the map was soon stolen by the Demons Three . [ 20 ] When Faust broke into A.R.G.U.S. in search of the key to the map, Zatanna and the Justice League Dark attempted to stop him. In aid of this, John Constantine had Steve Trevor give him access to the magical items within the Black Room. Unfortunately, he also pocketed the key for himself. This made him a target for the betrayer in the team's midst: Doctor Mist . The map and the key were lost to Faust as a result. [ 21 ]
The War for the Books of Magic
Though the map was lost to them, John saw the location that the books were supposed to be hidden on it: Slaughter Swamp . However, Zatanna's scrying showed that Faust and Mist had gone to Peru instead. Together with Deadman, she went to investigate in Peru while John and Black Orchid went to Gotham . The pair were attacked in Peru by the wood wizard Blackbriar Thorn . [ 11 ] With Deadman's power of possession, they manage to render the wizard powerless for the moment, and are surprised when they discover that he was attempting to stop them from discovering the House of Secrets behind him. The house's current owner happened to be Nick Necro, returned from Hell at last, and eager to get revenge on Zatanna and John for their betrayal. Zatanna, however, had been driven to John by Nick's obsession with the Books of Magic. When John arrived with the others, he was surprised to learn of his enemy's identity. In anger, Nick attacked him, causing Zatanna to promise that she would give herself up in exchange for her friends' lives. Nick accepted the offer, and kidnapped her in the House of Secrets. [ 22 ]
While Zatanna was trapped with him, Nick Necro explained that it had been he who engineered the creation of the Justice League Dark , all as a means of gathering John and Zatanna together so that he could exact revenge on them. After arriving in Nanda Parbat with the hope of collecting the Books of Magic, and then killing Zatanna before John's eyes, the unexpected variable of Tim Hunter 's destiny to claim them makes Nick change his mind. He warned John that he would kill Zatanna unless John would Kill Tim Hunter in her stead. Not wanting to see Zatanna die, John obediently snapped Tim's neck, only to reveal that it had all been an illusion, thanks to Black Orchid's shape-changing. She then beat Nick senseless, distracting everyone from the fact that Tim had been drawn to the Books of Magic. When Zatanna realized that he was about to be taken into another dimension by them, she leapt into the portal after him, leaving the pair of them stranded on the other side. [ 23 ]
The Death of Magic
Zatanna and Tim found themselves in another dimension called Epoch, where magic had been outlawed by a science-based community of humans called the Network. Having sensed their magic power—which appeared to have been augmented by their arrival there—a policeman named Vikar attempted to incarcerate them, but they were taken out from under his nose by the power of some wood nymphs. [ 24 ] Underground, Tim and Zatanna learned from the small population of magical creatures living in hiding that Tim was expected to rule Epoch. When the magic users of that world had come into conflict with the humans and lost, a wizard called The Hunter had taken the Books of Magic to Earth in the hopes of sending a hero back to turn the tables. Tim was supposedly his successor by blood. [ 25 ]
Despite being wary of the story, Tim and Zatanna decided that they had to lead an attack against Network anyway when they learned that their friends had followed them and been captured by Vikar. Together, Tim and Zatanna lead the army to the edge of Network's domain, prompting Vikar to come for them. [ 26 ] Unfortunately, the opening of the portal between the two worlds that brought the rest of the Justice League Dark to Epoch had destabilized both realities, and Zatanna would not allow the innocent people of Epoch to be killed as a result.
In order to bring stability back to both worlds, Tim's father Jack Hunter entered the portal and convinced Tim to unleash a blast of magic that ended the turmoil in the skies, and the war between the two sides. While Zatanna and the others returned home, Tim and Jack remained in Epoch as wizard-kings. John Constantine, meanwhile, had been affected by Epoch's strange effect on Earth-magic, and had been unable to lie, which meant that he had confessed his feelings to Zatanna quite candidly. She was polite enough to ignore it. Following their return, John ended his team's association with A.R.G.U.S. and Zatanna decided to join him in a Justice League Dark, unchecked by government oversight. [ 27 ]
Trinity War
Billy Batson , the young boy now possessing the power of Shazam, flew in the nation of Kahndaq to deposit the ashes of his former enemy, Black Adam . This violates several diplomacy agreements and could trigger a war between the United States and Kahndaq itself. As the powers of Billy are magical in nature, the Justice League asks Zatanna to come by and help them. [ 28 ] While in Kahndaq, a conflict between the Justice League and the JLA is triggered, as Superman accidentally killed Doctor Light . Soon, Diana makes an hypothesis about what could have led Clark to lose his control: a previous meeting with Pandora and her Box . Seeking magical help, Diana contacts the Justice League Dark . [ 29 ]
Zatanna is still in the A.R.G.U.S. facility where Superman is detained, assisting Batman and Cyborg in the autopsy of Dr. Light to discover if any kind of magic conditioning was involved in the matter. While performing the examination, the Phantom Stranger appears, telling them Wonder Woman sought the help of the Justice League Dark and this could lead to a catastrophe. Zatanna follows Flash and the Stranger in tracking down Diana. Once in the House of Mystery , two different factions split up: one sustains Batman's point of view, as the detective thinks that Superman's behavior and the Box are all scientifically connected. The other agree with Diana, sustaining that everything is driven by a magical force. Zatanna sides with Diana and, when things start to heat up, the sorceress decides to teleport away all of Diana's allies. [ 30 ]
After a while, Diana finds Pandora and takes hold of the Box : the thing is corrupted and it possessed anyone who lays an hand on it, including Wonder Woman. After trying to shield everyone from its corruption, Zatanna finds out Constantine has it: the Hellblazer cannot be corrupted by it because he's too much corrupted of his own. The two try to escape the rest of the heroes, who all crave the Box, finding out from Madame Xanadu , who was held prisoner by the Secret Society , that its function is the one of a doorway. Then, the Outsider , leader of the Society, appears telling everyone it's time for him to open it. [ 31 ] Soon, the Box is revealed to be a gateway from another world and from it, the Crime Syndicate emerges, ready to conquer the planet. [ 32 ]
DC Rebirth
The Last Age of Magic
While performing inside her father 's theater, one of Zatanna's easiest tricks goes crazy, summoning an horrific creature that starts to attack the audience. Wonder Woman comes up, helping Zatanna defeat the monster and protect the people: she's there to recruit the sorceress inside a new formation of the Justice League focused on finding why magic seems to be broken. Zatanna acknowledges it, but refuses to join Diana's team telling her that the magic world has its own people, and those people should resolve this problem.
The new formation !
After meeting John Constantine before the reunion of several magical beings in Wintersgate Manor and discussing the matter with him, Zatanna notices that Swamp Thing was spying on the encounter without actively being in it. She goes to Salem , where the Tree of Wonder grew, and talks with Swamp Thing himself about the matter and his take on it. Swamp Thing explains her that the Tree was a way for the Omega Titans to measure the Wonder of our world, but after what happened the Tree has no purpose, and he's evolving to find another. Zatanna tells him to communicate to the Tree that she's angry and that she wants to get control of her magic again, as it is her only way to connect to the world. The Tree surprisingly answer, in the form of Giovanni Zatara, Zatanna's dad, telling her that the Otherkind and their leader, the Upside-Down Man , are coming to take the magic back, as they were their original possessors.
In the vision that her father shows her, she fights alongside Diana and her team, thus making Zatanna understand that she and Swamp Thing should join forces with Wonder Woman, telling her she understood that magic, and even the planet, have them as their only hope. Still, she doesn't mention the fact her father said that a member of the team would be the key to saving or destroying magic once and for all [ 33 ] Thinking that their best possibility is to reach out for the help of Doctor Fate , Zatanna and Diana discover that Nabu , the Lord or Order and entity who gives the Doctor its power, imprisoned his host, Kent Nelson, inside the Helmet and took control. As magic, especially now, is leading to chaos, Nabu decided to ally himself with the Upside-Down Man , making him come to Earth and eat all magic away, so that finally Order could reign supreme. [ 34 ]
After what Nabu said, Zatanna remembers her father and his teachings: magic staffs, demon blood, even the backwards language the Zatara family used to handle magic, are system of Order to stabilize the force they are using, but maybe they are even something more. She remembers Giovanni telling her there were creatures in a dark place who didn't want humans to utilize magic, because it was theirs, and those systems were the only way to hide magic from them. Zatanna realized the monsters her father talked about are the ones that are coming out of the door Nabu opened: they are the Otherkind. Their leader, the Upside-Down Man, is a creature of pure terror and magic and without effort destroys most of the members of the team, even depriving John Constantine of its demon blood. When all seems lost, a mark of power activates on Wonder Woman 's forehead, a mark of a type of magic Zatanna does not know. The Upside-Down Man is hurt by that power and so Zatanna teaches a spell to Diana to banish the creature away, succeeding in doing so and restoring all the damage he made, including bringing Detective Chimp and Swamp Thing back to life. [ 35 ]
The Witching Hour
Zatanna started to help Diana understanding and controlling her new power, but was a little irritated when Diana chose to not talk about it with the Justice League during a meeting to talk about what happened with the Upside-Down Man . Back in the Justice League Dark headquarters, Diana suffers a breakdown as Hecate , the goddess of Witchcraft, is trying to take possession of her body: Wonder Woman was one of the five witch-marked, women chose by Hecate to host her power while the goddess waited an opportunity to size control of magic. After Zatanna reaches out to Diana to help her control herself, the team escapes through a dimensional portal, getting safe into the Oblivion Bar .
There, they find out another of the witch-marked, Witchfire , committed a massacre killing several young witches reunited there for a meeting of the Sisterhood of the Sleight Hand: witness to it was John Constantine , who as soon as he saw Zatanna come out of the portal stood up and kissed her. Shocked by John's audacity, Zatanna calms down when Constantine tells her he did it because he's convinced no one will survive the Witching Hour. [ 36 ] Diana then decides to meet Circe on her island of Aeaea , as the Greek sorceress is one of the most faithful servants of Hecate . Zatanna does not agree with the plan, but follows through. In Circe's house, Wonder Woman and Zatanna start an argument, as the sorceress tells the amazon that her idea of using the witch-mark power against Hecate herself was stupid and incredibly dangerous: Zatanna knows that magic always comes with a dark, heavy price and she does not want Diana to take so much of a burden. Still, Circe is convinced that Diana had a good idea, and with her support the amazon activates her power, opening a portal to Nanda Parbat where another of the witch-marked, Manitou Dawn , is trying to seize the city for Hecate. [ 37 ]
Against a possessed Wonder Woman !
In Nanda Parbat , Zatanna and Constantine realize that Hecate wants to control all of magic's places of power: with the instability of the magical dimension caused by the Otherkind , Hecate knows this is the perfect moment to try rewriting magic in her own image. After the battle started, soon Diana was completely under the control of Hecate and only Zatanna and Constantine remained to face her. [ 38 ] Talking about what to do, Zatanna discovers from John that he developed a deadly form of lung cancer after the Upside-Down Man deprived him of his demon blood, and that he will die soon. Hurt by the news of Constantine's illness, the two still find a desperate way to try defeating Hecate, or at least succeeding in freeing Diana of her control: an exorcism. The two combine their powers and try to do it, but the combination of Hecate's power, which was different than the usual magic Zee and John crafted, and the instability of magic itself caused the rite to have a complete different effect: it cured Manitou Dawn and Black Orchid , transferring the power they possessed all into Diana. [ 39 ]
Now with almost the entire power of an all-mighty goddess inside her, Diana heads to the last place of power still not in control of Hecate : the Sphere of the Gods . Zatanna and John seem to be destined to die, but all of Justice League Dark 's members get transported by Circe back to Aeaea . The witch want them to try a final attack against Hecate because if she gets control of magic, all will be lost. Thankfully, in some way Diana came back in control and, opening the door to the Upside-Down Man, she defeated Hecate when the monster ate her. After using her last power to cure Olympus from the damage caused before, Zee and Diana talk to each other about the consequences of the Witching Hour and the counter-attack to plan against the Otherkind . [ 40 ]
The Lords of Order
After helping Detective Chimp fix the mess he created inside the realm of Myrra , now under his protection, Zatanna received from her father , imprisoned by the Upside-Down Man , a powerful object: the Ruby of Life . [ 41 ] Combining this gift with the last message John Constantine left her, to find the dark sorcerer Mordru , Zatanna embarked with Diana in a long research. The two women tried to find information on Mordru, questioning Felix Faust and Papa Midnite about it, but with no success. [ 42 ] The only thing they discover is that Zee's father, Giovanni , met with both Circe and Mordru in the past, probably to discuss something that involved the destiny of his daughter. Trying to find out more, Diana and Zatanna reached Aeaea . [ 43 ]
Talking with Circe, Zee discovered that John Constantine was in truth a disciple of her father, who instructed him to be part of Zatanna's life. The witch also told her that they would never find Mordru, but him would find them when the time was right. Furious with both her father and Constantine, Zatanna transported back both her and Diana inside the Hall of Justice . [ 44 ] There, they found Mordru: the dark sorcerer described to them how he was the one who imprisoned Hecate , taking magic from her. He revealed them how chaos initially ruled magic, but then the Lords of Order , his own comrades, betrayed him and tried to control magic with instruments of Order, like formulas or weapons. Modrdu still believed in Chaos to be the key and, fulfilling a promise he made to Giovanni, he gave Zatanna and Diana the power of Chaos, transforming both ladies in Lords of Chaos. [ 45 ]
Zatanna and Diana gather then with the rest of the League , who was dealing with the Lords of Order themselves. Nabu and the other Lords wanted to destroy magic and trap, sacrificing their own life, the Upside-Down Man. But this was not the solution: with the power of Chaos, Zatanna re-established the power of Jason Blood and then turned into Lords of Chaos all her comrades, Detective Chimp, Man-Bat and Swamp Thing . Now united and all-powerful, the Justice League Dark was able to extinguish the problem of the Lords of Order and then, imbuing the Ruby of Life with the power of Chaos, Diana re-forged the magical system itself, as Zatanna understood that only someone outside of magic, and not a sorceress like her, would decide in a right way how magic should be renewed. [ 46 ]
Doomsday Clock
Main article: Doomsday Clock Vol 1
After Superman is framed and rendered comatose, Zatanna joined the group of heroes heading towards Mars to confront their mysterious enemy. The heroes meet and engage Doctor Manhattan , but they are easily defeated. [ 47 ]
The Witching War
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
The Parliaments of Life
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Infinite Frontier
Dark Crisis
Zatanna is called along with 10 other Justice League members by the Multiversal Justice League Incarnate to face battle against Pariah and his Dark Army , before being seemingly killed in battle along with the rest of the Leaguers except Black Adam . [ 48 ] In reality, she alongside her fellow Leaguers was trapped in a paradise dimension, before being rescued by The Flash and returning to Earth to join the battle against King Deathstroke . [ 49 ] [ 50 ]
Lazarus Planet
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Dawn of DC
Knight Terrors
This section of the article does not provide a complete profile of the subject. You can help out by providing additional information, expanding on the subject matter in order to bring this article to a higher standard of quality.
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Magic : Zatanna is one of the most powerful magicians in the world, having a mastery over both mystical and cosmic forces and able to manipulate reality. Although she usually performs her enchantments verbally, she is able to cast her spells by other means. [ 1 ] She is powerful enough to be considered a "Sorceress Supreme". [ 2 ] Magical Awareness Logomancy : Zatanna is able to speak her spells backwards to initiate a supernatural effect. [ 23 ] Zatanna's natural backwards speech has shown to make the impossible possible [ 51 ] and to have a connection to the Dark Multiverse Otherkind. [ 52 ] Atmokinesis : Zatanna is able to utilize her backwards spells to manipulate the weather. She once changed rain into falling petals and changed the day cycle in Gotham from night to day, which she completely undid shortly afterwards. [ 53 ] Chronokinesis Dimensional Travel Disintegration : Zatanna can use her magic to completely disintegrate objects. She was able to make a Batwing suit disintegrate by saying "edolpxe". [ 54 ] Elemental Control Electro-Blast : Zatanna can use her magic to fire bolts of electricity out of her hands, usually by uttering something like "sdnah fo gninthgil". [ 55 ] Eldritch Blast : Zatanna can fire bolts, waves, and blasts of magical energy out of her hands. Energy Construct Creation : Zatanna can use mystical energy to create physical constructs, such as platforms and shields Flight : Zatanna is able to walk on air, levitate or even fly. She can also give others the ability to do so, such as when she gave Batman the ability to walk on air [ 54 ] Force Field : Zatanna is able to create powerful force fields using her backwards talk to protect herself from supernatural threats such as the dark mists of Enchantress . [ 56 ] Gravikinesis : Zatanna can control the gravitational pull of objects using her backwards spells. An example of this is when she uttered "teg yvaeh" on the robot Ascalon to make him fall through a floor. [ 57 ] She can also decrease gravity in an area, allowing everybody within a certain vicinity of the spell to float upwards. [ 53 ] Healing : Zatanna can completely heal a person of their physical injuries. An example of this is when she healed Batwoman after a traumatic fight with Azrael by simply saying "laeh". [ 5 ] Invisibility : Zatanna is able to turn herself and others completely invisible by uttering something like "nrut elbisivni". [ 5 ] Molecular Reconstruction : Zatanna can use her backwards magic to alter the molecular structure of objects. An example of this is when she said "tius pu", transforming Bruce Wayne's tuxedo into a fully functioning Batsuit . [ 55 ] Telekinesis : Using her backwards magic Zatanna is able to move objects with simply gestures, such as when she tied cables around Batman's legs by saying "Dnib sih teef". [ 15 ] She has also burst pipes and created a telekinetic umbrella against the rain using her mind. [ 55 ] Telepathy : [ 58 ] Teleportation : Zatanna is able to use her backwards magic to teleport herself to anywhere on the globe. [ 59 ] She can also teleport others alongside herself, such as when she teleported herself and Batman to her hotel room in Gotham. [ 53 ] Clairvoyance : Zatanna used her magic and a crystal ball to look over The Rot 's invasion, whilst still being in the Justice League Dark's library. [ 60 ] Runes [ 61 ] Summoning Magic : Zatanna once showed the ability to utilize a type of summoning magic after conferring one of Felix Faust's spellbooks for an incantation to absorb the Demons Three . [ 42 ] Power Absorption : Zatanna is capable of absorbing other entities to gain their power. [ 42 ] Demons Three : (Formerly) Zatanna once appropriated the Demons Three into her in order to neutralize them when Felix Faust was incapacitated. Due to the incantations and absoprtion into her, she also was given their power. [ 42 ] Hellfire Manipulation : With the Demons Three's power, she showcased some abilities in conjuring hellfire. [ 42 ] Black Magic : During her tutelage with Nick Necro , she along with John Constantine was taught black magic by the renown mage, a form of magic known for having a high cost to it's practitioners. [ 10 ] Logomancy Black Magic : Zatanna can use Logomancy that is considered a form of black magic; similar to it's counterpart, certain kinds of effects are considered to have a high cost. [ 4 ] Resurrection : Zatanna once resurrected a dead rabbit as a child; the cost of the spell would of caused her great pained had her father not redirecred the pain and cost of the magic to himself. [ 4 ] Death Inducement : When fighting a bunch of Vampires, Zatanna said “drop dead” backwards. However due to her being weakened it froze them instead telling Madame Xanadu, that her spells wouldn't kill then anymore. [ 62 ]
Magical Awareness
Logomancy : Zatanna is able to speak her spells backwards to initiate a supernatural effect. [ 23 ] Zatanna's natural backwards speech has shown to make the impossible possible [ 51 ] and to have a connection to the Dark Multiverse Otherkind. [ 52 ] Atmokinesis : Zatanna is able to utilize her backwards spells to manipulate the weather. She once changed rain into falling petals and changed the day cycle in Gotham from night to day, which she completely undid shortly afterwards. [ 53 ] Chronokinesis Dimensional Travel Disintegration : Zatanna can use her magic to completely disintegrate objects. She was able to make a Batwing suit disintegrate by saying "edolpxe". [ 54 ] Elemental Control Electro-Blast : Zatanna can use her magic to fire bolts of electricity out of her hands, usually by uttering something like "sdnah fo gninthgil". [ 55 ] Eldritch Blast : Zatanna can fire bolts, waves, and blasts of magical energy out of her hands. Energy Construct Creation : Zatanna can use mystical energy to create physical constructs, such as platforms and shields Flight : Zatanna is able to walk on air, levitate or even fly. She can also give others the ability to do so, such as when she gave Batman the ability to walk on air [ 54 ] Force Field : Zatanna is able to create powerful force fields using her backwards talk to protect herself from supernatural threats such as the dark mists of Enchantress . [ 56 ] Gravikinesis : Zatanna can control the gravitational pull of objects using her backwards spells. An example of this is when she uttered "teg yvaeh" on the robot Ascalon to make him fall through a floor. [ 57 ] She can also decrease gravity in an area, allowing everybody within a certain vicinity of the spell to float upwards. [ 53 ] Healing : Zatanna can completely heal a person of their physical injuries. An example of this is when she healed Batwoman after a traumatic fight with Azrael by simply saying "laeh". [ 5 ] Invisibility : Zatanna is able to turn herself and others completely invisible by uttering something like "nrut elbisivni". [ 5 ] Molecular Reconstruction : Zatanna can use her backwards magic to alter the molecular structure of objects. An example of this is when she said "tius pu", transforming Bruce Wayne's tuxedo into a fully functioning Batsuit . [ 55 ] Telekinesis : Using her backwards magic Zatanna is able to move objects with simply gestures, such as when she tied cables around Batman's legs by saying "Dnib sih teef". [ 15 ] She has also burst pipes and created a telekinetic umbrella against the rain using her mind. [ 55 ] Telepathy : [ 58 ] Teleportation : Zatanna is able to use her backwards magic to teleport herself to anywhere on the globe. [ 59 ] She can also teleport others alongside herself, such as when she teleported herself and Batman to her hotel room in Gotham. [ 53 ] Clairvoyance : Zatanna used her magic and a crystal ball to look over The Rot 's invasion, whilst still being in the Justice League Dark's library. [ 60 ]
Atmokinesis : Zatanna is able to utilize her backwards spells to manipulate the weather. She once changed rain into falling petals and changed the day cycle in Gotham from night to day, which she completely undid shortly afterwards. [ 53 ]
Chronokinesis
Dimensional Travel
Disintegration : Zatanna can use her magic to completely disintegrate objects. She was able to make a Batwing suit disintegrate by saying "edolpxe". [ 54 ]
Elemental Control Electro-Blast : Zatanna can use her magic to fire bolts of electricity out of her hands, usually by uttering something like "sdnah fo gninthgil". [ 55 ]
Electro-Blast : Zatanna can use her magic to fire bolts of electricity out of her hands, usually by uttering something like "sdnah fo gninthgil". [ 55 ]
Eldritch Blast : Zatanna can fire bolts, waves, and blasts of magical energy out of her hands.
Energy Construct Creation : Zatanna can use mystical energy to create physical constructs, such as platforms and shields
Flight : Zatanna is able to walk on air, levitate or even fly. She can also give others the ability to do so, such as when she gave Batman the ability to walk on air [ 54 ]
Force Field : Zatanna is able to create powerful force fields using her backwards talk to protect herself from supernatural threats such as the dark mists of Enchantress . [ 56 ]
Gravikinesis : Zatanna can control the gravitational pull of objects using her backwards spells. An example of this is when she uttered "teg yvaeh" on the robot Ascalon to make him fall through a floor. [ 57 ] She can also decrease gravity in an area, allowing everybody within a certain vicinity of the spell to float upwards. [ 53 ]
Healing : Zatanna can completely heal a person of their physical injuries. An example of this is when she healed Batwoman after a traumatic fight with Azrael by simply saying "laeh". [ 5 ]
Invisibility : Zatanna is able to turn herself and others completely invisible by uttering something like "nrut elbisivni". [ 5 ]
Molecular Reconstruction : Zatanna can use her backwards magic to alter the molecular structure of objects. An example of this is when she said "tius pu", transforming Bruce Wayne's tuxedo into a fully functioning Batsuit . [ 55 ]
Telekinesis : Using her backwards magic Zatanna is able to move objects with simply gestures, such as when she tied cables around Batman's legs by saying "Dnib sih teef". [ 15 ] She has also burst pipes and created a telekinetic umbrella against the rain using her mind. [ 55 ]
Telepathy : [ 58 ]
Teleportation : Zatanna is able to use her backwards magic to teleport herself to anywhere on the globe. [ 59 ] She can also teleport others alongside herself, such as when she teleported herself and Batman to her hotel room in Gotham. [ 53 ]
Clairvoyance : Zatanna used her magic and a crystal ball to look over The Rot 's invasion, whilst still being in the Justice League Dark's library. [ 60 ]
Runes [ 61 ]
Summoning Magic : Zatanna once showed the ability to utilize a type of summoning magic after conferring one of Felix Faust's spellbooks for an incantation to absorb the Demons Three . [ 42 ] Power Absorption : Zatanna is capable of absorbing other entities to gain their power. [ 42 ] Demons Three : (Formerly) Zatanna once appropriated the Demons Three into her in order to neutralize them when Felix Faust was incapacitated. Due to the incantations and absoprtion into her, she also was given their power. [ 42 ] Hellfire Manipulation : With the Demons Three's power, she showcased some abilities in conjuring hellfire. [ 42 ]
Power Absorption : Zatanna is capable of absorbing other entities to gain their power. [ 42 ] Demons Three : (Formerly) Zatanna once appropriated the Demons Three into her in order to neutralize them when Felix Faust was incapacitated. Due to the incantations and absoprtion into her, she also was given their power. [ 42 ] Hellfire Manipulation : With the Demons Three's power, she showcased some abilities in conjuring hellfire. [ 42 ]
Demons Three : (Formerly) Zatanna once appropriated the Demons Three into her in order to neutralize them when Felix Faust was incapacitated. Due to the incantations and absoprtion into her, she also was given their power. [ 42 ] Hellfire Manipulation : With the Demons Three's power, she showcased some abilities in conjuring hellfire. [ 42 ]
Hellfire Manipulation : With the Demons Three's power, she showcased some abilities in conjuring hellfire. [ 42 ]
Black Magic : During her tutelage with Nick Necro , she along with John Constantine was taught black magic by the renown mage, a form of magic known for having a high cost to it's practitioners. [ 10 ] Logomancy Black Magic : Zatanna can use Logomancy that is considered a form of black magic; similar to it's counterpart, certain kinds of effects are considered to have a high cost. [ 4 ] Resurrection : Zatanna once resurrected a dead rabbit as a child; the cost of the spell would of caused her great pained had her father not redirecred the pain and cost of the magic to himself. [ 4 ] Death Inducement : When fighting a bunch of Vampires, Zatanna said “drop dead” backwards. However due to her being weakened it froze them instead telling Madame Xanadu, that her spells wouldn't kill then anymore. [ 62 ]
Logomancy Black Magic : Zatanna can use Logomancy that is considered a form of black magic; similar to it's counterpart, certain kinds of effects are considered to have a high cost. [ 4 ] Resurrection : Zatanna once resurrected a dead rabbit as a child; the cost of the spell would of caused her great pained had her father not redirecred the pain and cost of the magic to himself. [ 4 ] Death Inducement : When fighting a bunch of Vampires, Zatanna said “drop dead” backwards. However due to her being weakened it froze them instead telling Madame Xanadu, that her spells wouldn't kill then anymore. [ 62 ]
Resurrection : Zatanna once resurrected a dead rabbit as a child; the cost of the spell would of caused her great pained had her father not redirecred the pain and cost of the magic to himself. [ 4 ]
Death Inducement : When fighting a bunch of Vampires, Zatanna said “drop dead” backwards. However due to her being weakened it froze them instead telling Madame Xanadu, that her spells wouldn't kill then anymore. [ 62 ]
Abilities
Occultism : Zatanna is an expert magician with knowledge of innumerable spells and was taught by notable magicians Zatara and Nick Necro . [ 1 ]
Driving : Zatanna has shown herself capable of driving a motorcycle. [ 56 ]
Escapology : In preparation for her role as a stage magician, Zatanna was taught how to escape from precarious situations without using magic. By the time she was in kindergarten Zatanna could already escape from a straitjacket while underwater. [ 53 ]
Meditation : Zatanna's father taught her a dozen meditation techniques by the time she was 6 years old: Buddhist, Tibetan, Kabbalistic, and Kundalini to name a few.
Lock Picking : Zatanna was taught how to pick locks by her father. [ 53 ]
Prestidigitation : Zatanna was taught sleight of hand by her father as part of her training to become a magician. [ 55 ]
Business Management [ 63 ]
Hand-to-Hand Combat (Advanced) : Zatanna learned how to fight from Bruce Wayne. [ 64 ]
Weaknesses
Cost of Magic : While being a powerful practitioner of magic, Zatanna's magic often comes at a cost, although the specifics cost may depend on the type of magic performed. [ 4 ] Resurrection Limitaton : Zatanna is incapable of properly resurrecting people or animals without a cost, in which comes in the form of internal damage and pain. [ 4 ]
Resurrection Limitaton : Zatanna is incapable of properly resurrecting people or animals without a cost, in which comes in the form of internal damage and pain. [ 4 ]
Logomancy's Speech Depedency : (Formerly) As a practioner of Logomancy, Zatanna's use of this specific brand of magic requires her to speak backwards. Despite this limitation, she is capable of performing magic via other means.
Paraphernalia
Equipment
Gnosis Sphere : A powerful artifact protected by the Zatara family for generations, it's power lies in being able to answer any question after having direct contact with. Due to the danger it poses, her father considered it to among the most powerful artifacts ever made and as such, doesn't often use the object herself. [ 5 ] [ 65 ]
Magic Key : A magical key in which is capable of making any door lead directly back to Zatanna's home. She gifted Batman a key for emergency use. [ 66 ]
Ruby of Life : (Formerly) Zatanna was once given the Ruby of Life, which was then later changed with Chaos Magic originating from Mordru, whom stated it had enough power to damage the universe. [ 42 ] [ 67 ] Chaos Magic : While Zatanna possessed the Ruby of Life filled with chaos magic from Mordru, Zatanna was capable of performing Chaos Magic for a time; this type of magic required no use of any systems and was powered by imagination. While in usage of it, she was capable of matching Nabu and other Lords of Order in battle. Unlike her Logomancy spells, she instead casted effects by speakng anagrams. [ 67 ] Reality Alteration : Zatanna could alter reality while using chaos magic. She also used her power to support a spell to alter the terms in which Nabu could possess his hosts. [ 67 ] Summoning : Zatanna can summon entities with chaos magic. [ 67 ] Power Distribution : Zatanna used chaos magic to grant Jason Blood power through the Demons Three after he was split from Etrigan. [ 67 ]
Chaos Magic : While Zatanna possessed the Ruby of Life filled with chaos magic from Mordru, Zatanna was capable of performing Chaos Magic for a time; this type of magic required no use of any systems and was powered by imagination. While in usage of it, she was capable of matching Nabu and other Lords of Order in battle. Unlike her Logomancy spells, she instead casted effects by speakng anagrams. [ 67 ] Reality Alteration : Zatanna could alter reality while using chaos magic. She also used her power to support a spell to alter the terms in which Nabu could possess his hosts. [ 67 ] Summoning : Zatanna can summon entities with chaos magic. [ 67 ] Power Distribution : Zatanna used chaos magic to grant Jason Blood power through the Demons Three after he was split from Etrigan. [ 67 ]
Reality Alteration : Zatanna could alter reality while using chaos magic. She also used her power to support a spell to alter the terms in which Nabu could possess his hosts. [ 67 ]
Summoning : Zatanna can summon entities with chaos magic. [ 67 ]
Power Distribution : Zatanna used chaos magic to grant Jason Blood power through the Demons Three after he was split from Etrigan. [ 67 ]
Transportation
Teleportation via her own powers, besides that, regular forms of transport
Notes
Zatanna was created by Julius Schwartz , Gardner Fox , and Murphy Anderson , first appearing  in Hawkman #4 . However, Zatanna first appeared as part of Prime Earth continuity in Justice League Dark #1 by Peter Milligan and Mikel Janin .
Initially, Zatanna's mother Sindella had black hair and died when her daughter was only six years old. [ 68 ] However, possibly due to the many timeline alterations in the years following that issue's publication, Sindella's hair color and manner of death have been restored to something more similar to her New Earth counterpart . [ 3 ]
Trivia
Zatanna is regarded as a Sorcerer Supreme [ 2 ] and one of the two finest mystical warriors on Earth, the other being Doctor Fate . [ 69 ]
Zatanna owns her own business known as "Zatanna's One-Stop Shop For Magical and Mystic Mayhem", which provides servies such as sending mail into the Multiverse and spell-casting requests. On occasion, she is assisted by Khalid . [ 63 ]
Zatanna has dated several people including: Nick Necro [ 23 ] , John Constantine [ 23 ] , Bruce Wayne [ 70 ] and Cyborg [ 71 ] . At one point, her relationship with Constantine and Necro was polyamorous. [ 23 ]
Zatanna was expressed to be five years old in the year 1992, making her birth year around 1987. [ 72 ]
Zatanna's mother Sindella used to call her "canim", a Turkish word roughly meaning "my dear". [ 73 ]
Related
359 Appearances of Zatanna Zatara (Prime Earth)
273 Images featuring Zatanna Zatara (Prime Earth)
31 Quotations by or about Zatanna Zatara (Prime Earth)
Character Gallery: Zatanna Zatara (Prime Earth)
External Links
Zatanna Recommended Reading JLA: Zatanna's Search Justice League of America (Volume  1) Adventure Comics (Volume  1) Supergirl (Volume  1) Zatanna Special #1 Zatanna (Volume  1) Day of Judgment (Volume  1) Reign in Hell (Volume  1) Zatanna: Everyday Magic Seven Soldiers: Zatanna (Volume  1) Zatanna (Volume  2) Black Canary and Zatanna: Bloodspell Zatanna: Bring Down the House (Volume  1) Zatanna (Volume  3)
JLA: Zatanna's Search
Justice League of America (Volume  1)
Adventure Comics (Volume  1)
Supergirl (Volume  1)
Zatanna Special #1
Zatanna (Volume  1)
Day of Judgment (Volume  1)
Reign in Hell (Volume  1)
Zatanna: Everyday Magic
Seven Soldiers: Zatanna (Volume  1)
Zatanna (Volume  2)
Black Canary and Zatanna: Bloodspell
Zatanna: Bring Down the House (Volume  1)
Zatanna (Volume  3)
Footnotes
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 DC Comics Encyclopedia: All-New Edition
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 DC Nation (Volume 2) #0
↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Zatanna (Volume 3) #1
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #25
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 Detective Comics #961
↑ Batman: The Knight #7
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #11 – Batman: Urban Legends #16
↑ FCBD Dark Crisis Special Edition #0
↑ Robin & Batman #2
↑ 10.0 10.1 Justice League Dark #0
↑ 11.0 11.1 Justice League Dark #12
↑ Justice League Incarnate #4
↑ 13.0 13.1 Knight Terrors: Zatanna #1
↑ Sideways #7
↑ 15.0 15.1 Justice League Dark #1
↑ Justice League Dark #2 – 5
↑ Justice League Dark #6
↑ Justice League Dark #7
↑ Justice League Dark #9
↑ Justice League Dark #10
↑ Justice League Dark #11
↑ Justice League Dark #13
↑ 23.0 23.1 23.2 23.3 23.4 Justice League Dark Annual #1
↑ Justice League Dark #15
↑ Justice League Dark #16
↑ Justice League Dark #17
↑ Justice League Dark #18
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #22
↑ Justice League of America (Volume 3) #6
↑ Justice League Dark #22
↑ Justice League Dark #23
↑ Justice League (Volume 2) #23
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #1
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #2
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #3
↑ Wonder Woman and Justice League Dark: The Witching Hour #1
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #56
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #4
↑ Wonder Woman (Volume 5) #57
↑ Justice League Dark and Wonder Woman: The Witching Hour #1
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #7
↑ 42.0 42.1 42.2 42.3 42.4 42.5 Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #8
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #9
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #10
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #11
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #12
↑ Doomsday Clock #9
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #75
↑ Dark Crisis: Worlds Without a Justice League - Batman #1
↑ Dark Crisis on Infinite Earths #6
↑ Justice League Dark #32
↑ Justice League Dark and Wonder Woman: The Witching Hour #1
↑ 53.0 53.1 53.2 53.3 53.4 Detective Comics #960
↑ 54.0 54.1 Detective Comics #962
↑ 55.0 55.1 55.2 55.3 Detective Comics #959
↑ 56.0 56.1 Justice League Dark #2
↑ Detective Comics #958
↑ Justice League Dark #31
↑ Justice League Dark #4
↑ Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #20
↑ Justice League Dark and Wonder Woman: The Witching Hour #1
↑ Justice League Dark #8
↑ 63.0 63.1 Harley Quinn (Volume 4) #30
↑ Superman (Volume 6) #16
↑ Detective Comics #963
↑ Batman vs. Robin #1
↑ 67.0 67.1 67.2 67.3 67.4 Justice League Dark (Volume 2) #12
↑ Justice League Dark #35
↑ Justice League (Volume 4) #62
↑ Batman: Urban Legends #11
↑ Cyborg (Volume 2) #17
↑ Justice League Dark #35
↑ Zatanna (Volume 3) #5
This character has been a member of the Justice League of America , or simply the Justice League in any of its various incarnations, sworn by a duty to act as guardians of America and the world by using their skills and/or superpowers to protect Earth from the clutches of both interstellar and domestic threats. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Justice League of America members " category.
This character is or was a member of the Seven Soldiers of Victory , or the Seven Soldiers in any of its various incarnations, created during World War II and later, it returned to battle time-traveling, dimension-spanning mysteries and monsters. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Seven Soldiers of Victory members " category.

